Related: For Product, Free Farm

== Introduction
CityCoin is an asset-backed digital money issued against and backed by the land, tools and work required to build and maintain a series of self-sufficient private cities directly owned and controlled by those citizen.

Debt, rent and profit are minimized using modified crowdfunding, economic imputation, time banking, and patterns from the GNU GPL.l

Each CityCoin title represents:
0. A future Product of some *projected* quality and quantity [good or service to be produced].
1. A set of Property ownership titles to produce that Product [land and tools for production].
2. A set of Promises to aquire, install, operate and maintain the Property [work commitments].
3. A set of constraints on how we use Products, Property, Promises and Profit [this contract].


== Ricardian Contract
=== Trade Agreement / Terms of Operation
1. Money becomes Property:   Investors become real co-owners with rights of secession.
2. Property becomes Product: Owners are consumers paying early for goods and services.
3. Promises become Property: Workers become owners as they complete work commitments.
4. Profit becomes Property:  Consumers become owners as they buy surplus & pay profit.


==== 1. Money becomes Property
Similar to crowdfunding, consumers prepay for future goods and services with plain-old-money, but instead of just receiving one round of production, they become the real property owners of the land and tools that will be purchased for that future production.

This is fundamentally different from equity-based crowdfunding because of *why* the investors take risk.

In this case, the risk is made to insure production and abundance, causing gluts to no longer pose any threat to investors, except those holding excessive surplus.



==== 2. Property becomes Product
Each owner accepts the product itself as the direct and natural return on investment, thereby avoiding the usual selling and buying of the finished commodity.

The price each pays as a consumer is exactly the costs each paid as an owner while the final sale is eliminated, leaving profit [UNDEFINED].

Instead of selling the product to some other consumer, hoping for a price above cost, the product has been pre-distributed to the consumer who predicted they would need it.  There is no sale because it is already the individuated property of that co-owner

This allows the group to operate at zero profit even while all investors remain satisfied.  The compensation is the same amount as a For Profit investment, but inverted since the consumer *avoids* paying profit for that product.

This protects the consumer from paying the profit they otherwise would have paid when buying that product at the market.

Subgroups must be allowed to secede from the majority when the property is realistically divisible.


==== 3. Promises become Property
Workers invest when they commit to achieve future goals in return for immediate access to CityCoin titles vesting as those promises are completed, thereby avoiding excessive price and rent usually paid for food and housing.

Every worker is a consumer who must also own property to control the products he must consume.

Workers promise to accomplish future goals and receive property as those promises are fulfilled.  This replaces the rent or mortgage that would otherwise take most of the wages.

Vested Property can be used as collateral to access even more valuable Property.


==== 4. Profit becomes Property.
Any owner may sell surplus product and even collect profit, but some of that profit must be invested for that very same paying user to buy newly issued CityCoin titles, or to buy CityCoin titles being offered for sale by other owners.

This causes all users to incrementally gain the property ownership required to finally also control the production they need and receive those products at cost.



=== Limitations
CityCoin titles are only as valid as the Property and Promises backing the *projected* use-value of that future Product.


==== Development Phases
: PREBOOT[0]:
 Search real estate listings to meet the many requirements such as: minimum size, maximum price, fitness for permaculture, zoning restrictions, water rights, mineral rights, taxes, fees, etc.

 Start crowdfunding pre-campaign to ask workers and other investor where they prefer to build.

 Finalize parcel selection and issue CityCoin titles against each square foot of that land.


: BOOTUP[1]:
 Switch to full crowdfunding campaign, selling CityCoin titles to receive real commitments from workers and other investors.

 Reach agreement over general structure of the city such as a central meeting place, major roads, nature preserves, strict borders, pollution restrictions, and any other constraints this group may decide to enforce upon itself.


: STARTUP[2]:
 Purchase land, tools and startup supplies, including primary bulk food ingredients such as bushels of grains, legumes, raw potatoes, bales of herbs and spices etc. to cook large, cheap but nutritious shared meals and begin soap and cloth making.

 Workers may move onsite immediately, but must use tents, cafeteria style dining and temporary sanitation facilities as first shared structures are built.

 Build first shared structures.

 Install quickly-maturing plants and animals primarily for food.


: STASIS[3]:
 The city can support Tier0 without external trade.
 Build first private structures such as tiny houses.
 Install slow-maturing plants and animals with uses beyond food.


: SOVEREIGN[4]:
 The city can support Tier1 without external trade.


: SURPLUS[5]:
 The city produces more than it consumes.


==== Investment types
1. Pay with commitments of plain-old-money to crowdfund the debt-free
    purchase of real estate and tools from the regular market.

2. Pay with commitments to work in the future for others in the city.
    This cause you, the worker, to receive immediate access to enough
    CityCoin titles to sustain Tier1 quality of life.
    Vesting occurs as promises are kept, causing all workers to gain
    debt-free housing and food security.

3. Pay in a sort of 'accidental' way if you are buying surplus product
    from other owners and pay more than the real costs of production.
    Owners selling surplus are required to buy CityCoin titles with
    some of their profits, and vest ownership of those titles to you,
    the payer.  //[[How should we determine the minimum percentage?]]


==== Products
Each owner of Property is owner of future Product in that same ratio.

For example, if you own 3% of the hives, you own 3% of the future honey.

Each Product instance has a window-of-validity in time enforced by constraints on production and on the lifetime of the product.

For example, a young tree does not produce fruit immediately, and the fruit is not fresh forever.

CityCoin titles issued to workers will not vest if quality or quantity projections are not being met.  Projections must be adjusted for reasons that include unpredictable events such as severe weather, fire, earthquake, etc.


==== Property
Each city must have enough scale and complexity to deliver at least Tier0 quality of life to all citizens without outside trade.

A variety of city design templates following permaculture principles could help guide core decisions around borders, roads, shared structures, etc.

The price of each newly issued CityCoin title is based on:
1. The market price of the land.
2. The market price of all tools and organisms, etc. required for that production.
3. The number of CityCoins needed to compensate the workers for that production.

For example, those paying for "1 Gallon of milk per month" must pay for the land and tools and work to build and run the dairy and tend to the cattle and Alfalfa and water rights, etc., recursively, for all that production.

Each owner must pay initial and recurring costs of production in these ways:
. Supply Property or Promises for your portion of the costs of production for this group.
. Supply Property or Promises for your portion of the costs of production through another group which has a trade agreement with this group, and recursively, to any depth.
. Sell (or allow to be sold) enough of your Product to cover the costs of production.
. Secede from the group and retain your portion of the property under your own terms (within the limits of realistic divisibility).

For the safety of all citizens, every citizen must receive at least enough CityCoin titles to ensure at least Tier0 quality of life.


==== Promises
Promises are commitments of future labor which are traded for Property under these terms, or for Promises from others to work for you in the future.

For example, you might commit to pick fruit in the orchard during harvest season, drive a bus during the week, and cook breakfast every other Sunday at one of the many restaurants.

When CityCoin is purchased with Promises, it vests incrementally, as that work is completed.

Trading work early in time, before production begins, allows us to specialize without passing tokens while also solving the "simultaneous coincidence of wants" problem that faces typical barter.

This creates a real and direct insurance for each good and service produced in this way and inverts the usual incentives of scarcity and destruction toward our natural and original goals of abundance and permanent solutions.

In the regular market, mechanics, plumbers and dentists need customers with broken cars, pipes, teeth to insure the tokens continue to flow.  But if those workers can instead commit "up front" to fix any trouble that might occur in the future, they then hope you never have any trouble at all, since they have received your commitments either way.

Automation and robots can be used to safely reduce work in this scenario because the total amount of work is all that needs to be done to achieve the quality of life.

Work is returned to it's natural position as a problem we want to minimize instead of being a confused as social goal itself.

Anyone may apply for any job, but skill must proven and groups my other qualifications must be met.

A guild system might help determine worker skill levels and offer free access to educational media and paid apprenticeships.  Guilds would protect owners by spreading fulfillment and quality risks across groups of workers.

Jobs can be auctioned to build and maintain the city at Tier0 rate of compensation, increasing in a step-wise manner for as long as the job remains listed...  This isn't quite right, but the idea is to pay more for undesirable jobs.


==== Profit
Any owner may sell any amount of Product at any price, but some percentage of that Profit must be treated as an investment from that payer into issuing more CityCoin titles, or to buy CityCoin titles from others.

This safely reduces Profit within the system as the Property required for production is incrementally redistributed to the users of those Products.


=== Definitions
Property: All the land and tools and other non-human inputs needed to make a Product.
Promise : A commitment from a skilled human to achieve goals toward making a Product.
Product:  A *projected* quantity and quality of some good or service across time.
Profit:   Any amount paid by a consumer beyond the real costs of production.
Costs:    All Property and Promises actually consumed and all other externalities.
Surplus:  Any amount of Product the current owner will not use directly.


=== Quality of Life (QoL)
The QoL Tier system is an estimation of the minimum Property and Promises required for the health and comfort of each citizen.

Tier0: Shared sanitation, shelter and food required during BOOTUP phases
Tier1: Studio apartment, simple food.
Tier2: Bigger place; better stuff.


== End of Ricardian Contract


== CityCoin App Transactional Timeline

{List all Products currently in funding stage and accepting new investors}

>> User clicks on a Product to show details

$ BUY unvested CityCoin titles

>>> User becomes investor by committing money or promises of future work.

User requests some Product at a projected rate, such as >>1 Dozen Large Grade AA Eggs per week.

The user is then shown Real Estate listings near their location usable for that production.

Other users can also invest in that production by supplying some of the required Property or Promises required for that production, or for any other group using the CityCoin system.

CityCoin title are issued for each square foot of the potential purchase site.

The price of each CityCoin title is based on:
1. The market price to purchase (must not rent or lease) the land and tools required for that production.
2. The work  [quantity] x [quality] x [skill-level]  required for that production.

Those paying with money are implicitly buying enough CityCoin titles to compensate those workers.

Once all money and work commitments are secured, the real estate listing and supporting tools are purchased and production can begin.

Trading work Promises before production begins allows specialization without monetization.



== Smart Contract Design Notes
git.GNU.io/CityCoin
