Related: Crowd Control

City of Plenty is a GNU way for groups to secure and govern the Sources and Skills required to produce the Goods and Services they need.

We have designed the Intra Owner Trade Agreement as a set of operational constraints based on patterns found in the GNU GPL but applied to physical private property and to the commitments of future labor required for production.

The rules of the IOTA alter the purpose of production and society by changing how property, promises and profit are handled within that realm.

Each investor becomes a real co-owner in the land and tools required for the production of the goods and services they need and then accepts the product itself as the return on that investment.

Unlike a consumer cooperative, the product is not sold back to the owners, but is instead understood to be their property already, without purchase.

Just as the owner of a tree does not buy the nuts from himself, the owners of an orchard under these terms do not buy the nuts.

The price each pays as a consumer is exactly the costs each paid as a co-owner and profit does not exist because the usual transaction of purchase does not occur.


Investors join by committing either Property (or usually just regular old money to buy property) or Promises (a legally binding agreement to work in the future).

As a member, you receive real property ownership in the land and tools used to provide the goods and services you need.

This property is used to create a private village owned by the inhabitants.  Agriculture is carefully integrated around housing according to permaculture principles to produce all shelter, food, medicine, soap, clothing, etc. onsite in a Vertically Integrated Permaculture Mosaic.

Commitments to work in the future are treated as an investment that vests on a work-to-own basis, giving all workers instant access to a Basic Outcome and eventually debt-free ownership in all the property they need to assure the goods and services they need.

When selling surplus to non-owners, we allow the market to set the price and collect profit, but then treat some of that profit as the payer's investment.  Treating profit as an investment from thatpayer causes ownership in the growth of the group for that product to be automatically distributed to the person who just paid for that growth - the consumer.  Over time, non-owners gain property incrementally, eventually gaining enough to also avoid paying profit.  This stabilizes growth by distributing control.

Subgroups must be allowed to secede from the majority, splitting the property when realistic to keep control localized and minimized/focused.
