Related: IOTA, Property Future, VIPM

Cross Crowd Predictive Production is a new business model that helps people share property and swap promises for production under their full control and at the real cost of that production.

This approach requires a VIPM operating under the constraints of the IOTA.

Investors commit property, promises or profit to receive Property Futures which are a combination of real property ownership and work promises.  They eventually receive products as the natural return from that property.

Unlike a traditional consumer-cooperative, these consumer/investors become *real* co-owners in the VIPM and receive the product as a natural side-effect of that ownership.

The VIPM does not 'pay' the investors with product; the owners of the sources own their portion of the products already, even before they is produced.

When you own an Apple tree, you own all the potential future Apples from that tree as a side-effect of owning the tree.  You do not buy the Apples because they are your property already.

When you own part of an Apple orchard in a VIPM, you own your % of the Apples as a side-effect of owning a % of the orchard.  You do not buy the Apples because they are your property already.


==Prepaying with Property
Investors may commit property directly or just pay with plain old money which will be used to buy property, both sources and 'startup' products to bootstrap the VIPM.


==Prepaying with Promises
Workers are also investors when the promise to work in the future.

Those who invest promises in the VIPM also receive Property Futures, just as every other investor.

These investments are legally binding contracts to accomplish future goals for others within some time period.


==Prepaying with Profit
Consumers are also investors when they pay profit while buying surplus.

This only occurs when the consumer has insufficient source ownership.

This is a sort of 'accidental' investment caused by the payer's dependence upon the current owners.


==An Example
A worker may promise to milk 100 cows each morning.  This commitment is coupled with land, water-rights, tools and cattle to create a bundle of Property Futures specific to cow milk.

Each of these Property Futures is sold to others within the VIPM that predict they will want milk.

Some of these Property Futures are sold for money to buy property such as land and tools and cattle, etc., while the rest are 'sold' to workers in return for work promises.

Surplus milk is sold to non-owners for a profit, but the profit is treated as the payer's investment, causing those late-coming consumers to receive Product Futures in the growth of the dairy.


==Rules of the IOTA
1. We use property ownership in the sources of production to pre-allocate the product to those who predict they will want it.

And so there is no need to buy or sell products within the VIPM when those products are already in the hands of those who will consume them.  Incidentally, this also causes production to be strictly for use-value, and eliminates profit naturally, except when selling surplus, since the price they pay as consumers is exactly the costs they pay as owners.


2. We use promises of work to schedule commitments of labor so that we do not need to pay wages in the traditional sense.

For example, A commits to work for B in return for B committing to work for A.  But a real working system would have at least dozens and probably hundreds of different products and so exchanges will be chained as A->B->C->D->E->A such that a worker can milk cattle and still have dental assurance even if the dentist is allergic to milk.

Together, these minimize the need for token-passing within that VIPM and creates real security for those participants.

The only need for external money is further vertical integration as we incrementally purchase the entire tree of production for each product we want.


3. After some time, owners will likely have surplus (especially after a few years of growth and natural regeneration of species).

Each owner can choose to do whatever they like with their own surplus, but if it is sold, the IOTA requires profit be treated as the payer's investment.

Treating profit as the payer's investment auto-distributes control to those who pay for that growth.


4. Any subgroup is allowed to split from the rest of the group for any reason while retaining their portion of ownership.  This keeps control local as the form scales in total size and resolve devisive disputes.


==Example
Say you have ownership in the Olive orchard and find yourself with 100 extra pounds of Olives. You can turn these into oil and try to burn them in a diesel engine, or you can offer them as a sacrifice to your God, or whatever you want, but if you sell them, you must treat any amount collected above costs as though the buyer had made an investment in the VIPM.

If you do all of the work of selling the Olives, then you can claim that everything the buyer paid beyond any other costs you may have incurred are your wages for doing that work or you can arbitrarily mark some of that as profit since you are not using the market to determine your wages.

But if you hire someone to sell the Olives, or (and this next case will likely be the most common) if you just let the VIPM storehouse sell any of your surplus for you, then those workers will be paid wages that are easily separated from profits, and so all you will receive all the costs needed to cover that overproduction (assuming the product can be sold at least at cost) and so you will "break even" but will never "make a profit" because all the profit will be treated as though the person who paid it was making an investment.

This means you will want to own just barely enough of each part of the VIPM as you need of each product; though actually you will likely want to own just a little bit more as a sort of 'insurance' against the possibility lean years of production caused by drought or pestilence, etc.


==
Imagine a crowd-funded corporation where the only shareholders are the very consumers of that product and their ROI is the product itself.

Instead of collecting profit from others, they avoid paying profit themselves.

The owner of an Apple tree does not *buy* the Apples from himself, but owns them already, as a side-effect of his property ownership.

In CCPP, the product is not be sold back to each owner; it is their property already, according to the amount of sources they own.

If you invest more than you can use directly, you can sell that product to others under the strict condition (enforced by the IOTA) that any profit collected during that sale be treated as an investment from that payer - so the organization can grow in size while avoiding the troubles of centralization and overaccumulation that plague nearly every other endeavor that begins to scale.

There is no reason to worry about the workers - for that is who we are protecting, but we are protecting their ability to consume instead of trying to prop-up wages and avoid automation.

Wishing the machines would just stop (as John Henry) will become less and less of an option as the robots are coming to take the work away - and we can be *happy* about that if we are working on the right side of the equation!

Furthermore, even without robots, wages and profit will approach zero as the sources become cheaper, since there will be no way to stop willing workers from accessing those tools and thereby providing the solutions consumers seek.

Workers can invest more than they are able to consume, but it won't do them any good when the consumers already have sufficient ownership needed to protect themselves from workers who try to stop other peers from doing that work by blocking access to property needed for production.

Workers cannot inflate wages through ownership if other consumers already have sufficient ownership because propping wages requires the worker be able to stop other potential workers from accessing the property, and why would a group stop a peer from bidding to do a job especially since in some cases they might even do that work for free (gratis) because they see it as play.

Workers who invest and co-own more of the Avocado orchard than they are able to consume will not be able to prop-up wages because the other co-owners will always have the option to do the work for themselves or to hire the lowest bidder.

When those workers have sufficient ownership in the sources for which they need the products, they will not be buying products from anyone, but will own them already, as a side-effect of their owning the sources needed for that production.

You may be tempted to dismiss this as simply a Consumer Cooperative, but this is absolutely NOT a Consumer Cooperative.

1.) Consumer Cooperatives *sell* the product back to the co-owners and collect a profit during that transaction that a committee then doles out in a Tyranny of the Majority fashion.

1a.) CCPP only sells product to non-owners, and only when there is surplus, and treats that profit as an investment from that payer - causing ownership and control to be automatically distributed at the point of sale back to the actor who was willing to pay for it. This system minimizes and nearly eliminates the trading of goods since the Property owner of does not buy the Objective, but owns it already as a result of his Property ownership.  The trading of goods will tend toward zero but does not reach stasis because of newcomers into the system (even just babies being born), and because people's interests change across time.


2.) Consumer Cooperatives are "Democratically Controlled" with one-member/one-vote.

2a.) CCPP is far more autarchic - where any member can 'fork' his portion of the Property and secede from the union or sell those shares if a split is attempted that is finer than reasonable divisibility (you can't both feed a single milk-cow grain and NOT feed that cow grain, but can divide a herd).

2b.) Each member has exactly as much vote power as he has ownership. If you own 11% of a roto-tiller and your neighbor owns 22%, then you have only half as much vote power in decisions such as "how often should we change the oil".


3.) Every Consumer Cooperative I know of is only concerned with buying products that were made by Capitalists.

3a.) CCPP is primarily about ownership and control of the entire tree of production - recursively, and works toward a Vertically Integrated Commons where we, the people, own the farms and factories and land and water rights and all the other Property and supporting Property required to reproduce those things.


Customers *already* pay all the Costs of production. We, the consumers, foot the entire bill. And we *also* pay Profit because we choose to pay late.

But if we could organize to pay early - to collectively purchase the Property needed to produce the products we need - then, we would still need to pay all costs.

But since we would own the products as a side-effect of our owning the sources, we would not be 'buying' from ourselves, and so COULD NOT pay Profit, for that final transaction would not even occur!

Profit is *undefined* when the consumers own the sources and accept the product as ROI.

Treating profit as the payer's investment allows us to safely include others while avoiding the typical problems of overaccumulation and excessive concentration of control that cause even the most well-intentioned organizations to finally fail to meet the needs of those they were initially formed to serve.

These owners do not buy the finished products, but own them already - even before they are completed - as a side-effect of their source ownership.

1.) Since the product is not sold, profit does not exist.

2.) Since the product is not sold, there is no chance for the government to collect sales tax.

3.) Since the product is not sold, there is no chance for the government to disallow that production (buying raw milk is illegal in many parts of the US).


----
CrossCrowdPredictiveProduction.Tumblr.com
CrossCrowdPredictiveProduction.BlogSpot.com
CrossCrowdPredictiveProduction.github.io
github.com/CrossCrowdPredictiveProduction
CrossCrowdPredictiveProduction@gmail.com
