Related: CCPP, IOTA, next-system-project-comparative-framework, 100AndChange.org

Crowd Control is a new business model, partly based on patterns found in the GNU GPL, designed to help us own and govern the Property and Skills required to produce all the goods and services we need.

The GNU GPL is a strange copyright license from the Free Software Foundation that requires every User gain access to the 'Sources' of every product they receive.  The Sources are very much the Means of production for the immaterial realm.  This may seem of little value since most Users do not know how to 'operate' the Sources directly.  But economically this has the profound effect of lowering the barrier to entry for workers to nearly zero, causing prices and wages to plummet, leaving Workers just as vulerable as ever.  )-:

Similar to how the GNU GPL uses copyright to restrict sharing in the immaterial realm, we have written the Intra Owner Trade Agreement (IOTA) as a Terms of Operations enforced by property rights that owners of physical property can use to require all future users gain access to the *material* Sources of production such as land, water-rights, tools, etc.


----------------------------------------------------------------
                Intra Owner Trade Agreement

=== TERMS OF OPERATION
0. Investors become owners.  Each person who commits either Property (or usually plain-old-money to buy property) or Promises (future work) receives real property ownership under these terms.

Properties are the physical assets such as land, water, plants, animals, tools, computers, etc.


1. Property becomes Product.  We do not pay profit to investors.  Investors are actually just consumers pre-paying for future goods or services.

As co-owner of physical Sources, you are co-owner of the future product in that same amount.  If you own a % of a dairy, you own that same % of the milk, even before it is produced.

You don't buy that which you already own and you do not sell that which you need, so this arrangment cancels-out the usual need to transfer ownership, thereby avoiding the payment of profit and more importantly returns control to the hands of the person who will use the results.


2. Promises become Property.  We do not pay wages.  Workers are actually just consumers pre-paying for future goods or services.

Promises are commitments to achieve the work needed to create, install, operate and maintain the Properties.

When you commit to work in the future, you receive Crowd Cache which vests on a "work-to-own" basis to protect the group against those who will not work.

This gives all workers immediate access to at least a Basic Outcome of food, housing, clothing and sanitation as long as they fulfill those promises at the agreed quality and rate.

During startup, on-site shelter may be temporary structures, even tents.  We will do all the work ourselves, so food will initially be bulk purchase raw materials such as legumes, grains, living animals, part of which we will use immediately to make meals while installing the rest in a permaculture manner.


3. Profit becomes Property.
If we sell surplus, and profit is collected, some of that profit must be 'reflected' back to the payer as real ownership in growth as more property is bought in the future with combined profits from selling any surplus.

Crowd Cache is issued at the point-of-sale, but is not operational until the Property is purchased and Promises are fulfilled.


4. 

----------------------------------------------------------------
==== Timeline
. Decide approximate location considering both the need for some agriculture, but not too far from consumers wealthy enough to prepay.

. Writeup crowdfunding pitch.

. Issue Crowd Cache for all Products, backed by needed Properties and Promises.

. Consumers prepay with plain-old-money for locally grown, organic goods and services.

.. This money is used to buy the land, tools and startup supplies.

. Workers prepay with promises for locally grown, organic goods and services.
.. These promises pay for all the skills required for that production.


You may invest as much Property (money) or Promises (time) as you want, but will usually only want slightly more than you can use directly.

Each investor becomes a real co-owner in that part of the Production Arena and receives the Product itself as a side-effect of that ownership.

As a property owner under terms of the IOTA, you own that same percentage of the product automatically.  For example, if you own 1% of a dairy, you automatically own 1% of the milk.  This requires you also supply the consumable Property or Promises needed for that production, or [more commonly] supply compensation to others for supplying those inputs, or to others as a resolvable chain of commitments.

You are not 'paid' by a central authority, but instead simply own a portion of the Product even before it is produced, simply because of your Property ownership in the Sources and your 'payment' into the system to compensate for the work Promises required to deliver that Product.

This is obvious for a single person owning a small productive resource.

For example, when you own an Apple tree, you own all the potential Apples from that tree as a side-effect of owning the tree.  You do not buy the Apples because they are your property already.

Similarly, when you own part of an Apple orchard, you own your % of all the potential Apples from that tree as a side-effect of co-owning the tree.  You do not buy the Apples because they are your property already.


==== Promises are a Worker's Investment.
Workers are also consumers who can commit to work in the future in return for access to a Basic Outcome.

Property aquired through Promises vests incrementally, as those Promises are fulfilled.

Workers are not paid wages, but instead receive co-ownership [on a work-to-own basis] in various parts of the production arena according to what they predict they will want, limited by the amount of value (in Promises) they are offering back to other investors.

These production contracts are the bassis of a Basic Outcome and real Health Assurance.

Trading work promises before production begins allows us to specialize without passing tokens while also solving the "simultaneous coincidence of wants" problem that faces typical barter.


==== Profit is the Payer's Investment.
When selling any surplus, profit may be charged against the non-owner, but some % of that Profit must be reflected to that Payer as immature IOTAs issued *at the point of sale* based on projected monetary costs required to secure the Property and Promises.

We allow the market to set the price (or use an auction), but then 'reflect' any price above costs back to the payer by investing further, and vesting that property to the payer.

This causes those users to incrementally receive access to the sources of the objects they use by gaining real property ownership in such assets.

Treating profit as an investment from the payer causes the property ownership of the organization to be automatically distributed to those who paid for that growth and need the results.


==== Secession is each Owner's Right.
This is meant to keep control localized.

Subgroups may fork from the group at any time and for any reason without punishment while retaining their ownership so control remains localized even as the system scales.

Other possible names: division, fork, partition, split, secession
May not be necessary if IOTA trading is free and easy.

The IOTA is a currency backed by the Sources and Skills needed for future production.

It is both a bundle of Property titles (land, tools, etc.) AND work Promises (commitments from skilled workers to achieve future goals) that can imperfectly 'assure' some good or service.

IOTAs and tickets would ideally be electronic, allowing instantaneous conversion and so fully liquid currency, but it can be useful to imagine them as paper notes with the obverse showing a predicted quality and quantity at some rate for some Product and the Properties and Promises listed on the reverse.


==Example 1
0. Product:  Approximately one dozen grade A, medium to large chicken eggs every week.
1. Property: Co-ownership in land and tools needed to operate this chicken farm and grow the feed for those chickens.
2. Promises: Commitments from all the people required to run this chicken farm and grow the feed.

==Example 2
0. Product:  Two rides on the west-side bus between 8am and 8pm every day.
1. Property: Co-ownership in bus and tools etc. to operate and maintain this bus fleet.
2. Promises: Commitments from all the people required to operate and maintain this bus fleet.


Each IOTA owner must either:
a.) Fulfill some work promises for that group or for another group.
b.) Supply property [or money to buy property] for that group or for another group.
c.) Allow the group to trade some of your product to cover the property or promises needed for future production.
d.) Secede from the group and retain your portion of the property [when realistically divisible] under your own terms.
e.) Sell their portion.

Investors receive real ownership and control of the entire tree of production - recursively; working toward a Vertically Integrated Permaculture Mosaic (VIPM) where we, the people, own the farms and factories and land and water rights and wells and refineries and mines and forges and all the other property required to produce all the goods and services we need.

We, the consumer *already* pay all the costs of production; we foot the entire bill and we also pay profit because we choose to pay late.

But if we organize and pay early - to collectively purchase the property needed to produce the products we need - then we will still need to pay all costs, but since we will own the products as a side-effect of our owning the sources, we will not be 'buying' from ourselves, and so cannot pay profit, for that final transaction will not even occur!

Profit is *undefined* when the consumers own the sources and accept the product as ROI.

Treating profit as the payer's investment allows us to safely include others while avoiding the typical problems of overaccumulation and excessive concentration of control that cause even the most well-intentioned organizations to finally fail to meet the needs of those they were initially formed to serve.

After some time of operation, most goods and services will be preallocated and so no longer bought and sold in the regular manner except when accepting new users.
