2014-01-31: Moving toward the new naming: Cross Crowd Predictive Production

2014-01-29: Posted to plus.google.com in response to Apostolis Xekoukoulotakis

Imagine a crowd of consumers fund and own the means of production.

Imagine they accept the product itself as the return on investment.

In this case there are no middlemen and there is no exchange value.

There are no middlemen because the people who will finally use the
product are the owners *already*, even before it is produced.

There is no exchange value because the product is never exchanged
since, again, it is already in the hands of those who will use it.

Money from middlemen is not needed when the consumers can crowd
together to fund that production themselves.

It is much easier for consumers to fund production than for the
workers to do so because there are far more consumers than workers.

The consumers have a direct connection and absolute control over
production when they actually own the means of production.

This is different from crowd funding.

Crowd funding does not allow the consumers real ownership.

Crowd funding is a one-time payout of product.

What I am talking about is Crowd Owned Production.
Where the consumers gain real property ownership of the means of
production for the sole purpose of receiving the product as ROI.

> One question though arises. How can middlemen extract value? In the production process, this happens through the transfer of ownership of the product from the producers to them and then a second transfer from them to the consumers.

We can eliminate both of those tranfers by helping the consumers
become the real property owners who accept the product as ROI.


There are two more parts to this that I will elaborate on later:

1. How do we pay workers?  (hint: Every worker is also a consumer.)

2. How do we accept latecomers? (hint: Profit is the inverse of Property.)

2014-01-17:
> I am rambling so I will stop for a breath.

Thanks for the help.  This is tough stuff.


> Self sufficiency (within the arbitrary group) is
> assumed here, but the system will need a transitional
> function to trade for things they cannot make (say for
> the start, tractors)

This is a very important point, for which I have a
solid but mostly unwritten answer.

At highest abstraction the answer is to say we will be
attempting "Vertical Integration" all along the way.

But the grandure of long-term visions must be balanced
by the immediacy of short-term needs.

So, for example, we want to have our own direct-solar
steel forge to make tools, but at first we will just
buy shovels from Walmart.

We want to raise and slaughter our own beef-cattle,
but will just by cases of frozen burgers at first to
keep the workers from starving.

I say "Profit is the Payer's Investment", but it is
important that the current owners have a certain
amount of 'vote' in what, exactly, will be the target
of that investment so that short-term and long-term
goals are properly balanced.

Consumers will tend to have short-term goals (many
would even cash-out immediately if given the chance),
while current owners will tend toward long-term.

So, while the investments of profit, should generally
target the 'sources' of whatever the payer purchased,
the question becomes "what part" of the chain of
production we should target as we attempt to maximize
Vertical Integration for the benefit of the current
owners without damaging the more immediate needs of
the non-owning consumer who paid profit (remember the
consumer pays profit because he lacks ownership).


Let me know if this makes sense or not.

I will answer your other questions in another mail.



2014-01-16:
Demo -> Market -> Fund -> Produce -> Sell -> Distribute

2014-01-10: How do we represent the re-ordering of production phases.

2014-01-01: Crowdfunding Campaign and Business Plan

2014-01-01: Comparing 3d game engines

DevMaster.net/devdb/engines
Torque3D
SoftPixel.sf.net
Sauerbraten.org
Raydium.org
Ares.GoogleCode.com
Maratis3D.org
GameKit.GoogleCode.com
HMREngine.com
CrystalSpace.org
Irrlicht.org
Ogre3D.org, Ogitor.org
FurBallz.net
cafu.de
