2018-05-30: The For Product business model can alternatively be thought of as a land aquisition strategy.

It will form the basis of new society, and so must be designed with great care.

With only 3 rules, it is currently too simple.

It will eventually become a set of non-contiguous nation-states.

2018-05-29: FriendsProvidentFoundation.org >>Friends Provident Foundation is an independent charity that makes grants and uses its endowment towards a fair, resilient and sustainable economic system that serves society. We connect, fund, invest and share learning to shape an economy that works for all.

2018-05-28: JUKEBOX -- Business model idea to fund local radio
Website curates links to audio which can be legally played on radio.
Website helps users create audio such as "shoutouts", local advertising, original music, etc.
Users pay to change the radio playlist by bidding for time slots.


2018-05-28: Unitism.com >>What if we lived in a world where everyone had enough? A world where everyone mattered and where people lived in harmony with nature? What if the solution to our economic, social, and ecological problems was right underneath our feet? Land has been sought after throughout history. Even today, people struggle to get onto the property ladder; most view real estate as an important way to build wealth. Yet, as readers of this book will discover, the institution of land ownership—and our urge to make money from land—causes economic booms and busts, social and cultural decline, and environmental devastation. Land: A New Paradigm for a Thriving World introduces a radically new economic model that promises a sustainable and abundant world for all. This book is for those who dream of a better world for themselves and for future generations.

2018-05-27: Lumina Desktop

2018-05-26: HomelessGardenProject.org >>The Homeless Garden Project provides job training, transitional employment and support services to people who are experiencing homelessness. HGP's vibrant education and volunteer program for the broad community blends formal, experiential and service-learning. The programs take place in our 3-acre organic farm and related enterprises.

FleetFarming.org

CommonBound.org >>On June 22-24, 2018, over 700 people across the new economy movement will come together in St. Louis, MO for CommonBound 2018 to connect with one another, share our resources, and demonstrate our power in creating systems that truly meet the needs of our communities.

RealFoodChallenge.org >>The time has come to harness our power to create a food system that is just and sustainable for all.
2018-05-23:

For Profit Business Lifecycle:
. Pitch to Bankers or VC
. Enter debt or profit obligations
. Buy INPUTS (purchase land and tools)
. Buy ACTIONS (pay wages to workers)
. Produce OUTPUTS
. Advertise OUTPUTS to Consumers
. Sell OUTPUTS to Consumers at Price above Cost
. Pay investors with that Profit

For Product Business Lifecycle:
. Pitch to consumers as a microfund
. Avoid debt and profit obligations
. Buy INPUTS (purchase land and tools)
. Buy ACTIONS (pay INPUTS to workers on work-to-own basis)
. Produce OUTPUTS
. Consumers accept OUTPUTS as the natural return on investment

2018-05-21: I wish I could say the truth'[p I see.

2018-05-20: Land and tools are held for product at the Work Shop.

2018-05-18: CommunityShares.co.uk >>BE OWNED BY YOUR CROWD!    Community Shares are the future of finance for community businesses, social enterprises and charities

2018-05-18: -todo

2018-05-18: Finally bought some HOLO.host hardware INDIEGOGO.com/projects/holo-take-back-the-internet-shared-p2p-hosting-community

2018-05-17: Reworking Basic Outcome to require each member supply their portion of the work reqired to maintain those goods and services without token-passing.

2018-05-11: We must:
Partition assets and schedule deeds.
Share property and swap promises.
Split ownership and trade labor.

2018-05-09: Crowd Control remixes ideas from crowdfunding, timebanking and profit sharing to make a new Mode of Production that can be implemented as a Terms of Operation over shared property and promises.

2018-05-02: When users are owners, these battles are gone:

"'Platforms that find an evolutionary balance grant the right amount of freedom and get ecosystem’s trust end up being a strong resilient context for thriving economies, both on the owners’ and users’ side of the table.'"

"'Furthermore, platforms embody and update MIT Von Hippel’s vision of User Toolkits for Innovation , tools with which the brand empowers users to self customize their products, bringing it to a higher level. Effectively relieving the brand from the need to innovate on its own, platforms (and platform/infrastructures) “mobilize third-party producers to invest in and deploy the latest functionality” or just to impersonate it. To achieve this, platform owners must be open not only at the “long tail” level, but also produce ways for third parties to access the lower infrastructure and platform’s core components (e.g with APIs) and reshuflle and remix it.'" -- PlatformDesignToolkit.com/wp-content/docs/Platform-Design-Toolkit-Whitepaper-ENG.pdf
