2017-06-29: OwnTown is a new way to own and control the production of all the goods and services we need.

We help groups share property, promises and profit to deliver products at cost while returning workers to the helm of production *as consumers*.

We constrain the sale of physical assets and provide work-to-own contracts to create a production arena respecting user freedom in the physical realm.

1. Money commitments are treated as investments into the sources of the goods and services that person needs.  This property vests immediately as real property ownership.

2. Work commitments are also treated as investments into the sources of the goods and services that person needs, but that property must vest incrementally, as those commitments are completed.

3. Profit commitments (when selling surplus to outsiders) are treated as accidental investments into the sources of the goods and services that person needs.

4. Subgroups may split/fork/secede from the majority, allowing arbitrary-sized cells to form and weild their own localized governance.


2017-06-23: The Kernel Developers Guide to a GNU Economy
Imputation is similar to the zero-copy optimization.
Using property rights to preallocate product eliminates the transaction that otherwise inverts our natural goals of abundance and permanent solutions.
Profit is a result of property misallocation.
Money is a few things mixed together: Property, Promises, and usually Profit.


2017-06-17: Thinking of an app to reveal bad road conditions and vehicle behavior.
Point phone camera out front window to identify surroundings and other vehicles.
For safety, screen should, unfortunately, probably be blank to avoid driver distraction.
Otherwise colors and/or patterns could be drawn over the video to indicate the trouble.
Rewind-in-time feature records a slinding window of video, retaining only maybe 5 seconds.
If something exciting happens, yell "RECORD" to save those 5 seconds and continue recording.
The driver should comment on the situation to be played to others when they encounter the same.

2017-06-17: VOTAX is an idea to combine traditional taxation and representation into a single concept to allow any group direct and complete control over the production of any good or service they want.

2017-06-15: A City of Plenty Through a GNU Mode of Production

1. Join when you commit PROPERTY or PROMISES toward future production.
2. Workers gain PROPERTY on a work-to-own basis as PROMISES are fulfilled.
3. PROPERTY preallocates PRODUCTS to each owner/consumer in that same amount.
4. When you pay PROFIT, you gain PROPERTY in that same amount (unless running hybrid mode).
5. Any subgroup may split the PROPERTY when realistically divisible.

PROPERTY  : Joint ownership of land, water, tools, plants, animals,
PROMISES  : Commitments from a worker to achieve future PRODUCTION.
PRODUCTS  : Outputs of production including all goods and services.
COSTS     : PROPERTY and PROMISES paid by OWNERs during PRODUCTION.
PRICE     : Amount paid the CONSUMER when buying PRODUCTS.
PROFIT    : Difference between PRICE and COSTS.

2017-06-06: The Property and Promises needed for production can be represented as a Value Ledger stored as a simple list of commitments.
