2017-01-24: Moving to NotaBug.org/AGNUcius/Crowd-Cache

2017-01-18: Is it all about potential value?

Property becomes Product
Promises become Property.
Profit becomes Property.


2017-01-12: How and why 'Free as in Freedom' will finally win.

The GNU GPL is a mysterious copyright license that uses private property ownership to create a walled garden within the immaterial realm.

The rules of this license are designed to insure users have the freedom to use, modify, copy and share any Object they own.  It does this partly by requiring every user gain at-cost access the all the Sources needed to change that Object.

The term 'Sources' originally meant the human-readable design of the program but now generally means the designs of whatever is being protected and the designs of all the immaterial tools needed to make identical or modified copies.

But we live in a material world.  We must have at-cost access to the material tools needed to produce and maintain any Object, and the freedom to use, modify, copy and share those Objects.

We will crowdfund the land and physical tools without debt to create self-sufficient villages centered on permaculture subsistence production, then apply a set of rules to that property.

These rules must protect users by somehow granting them access to the physical Means of Production.

The surprisingly simple solution is to treat part of profit as the payer's investment.

Treating profit as the payer's investment causes growth to be autodistributed to those who paid for that growth.


2017-01-07: Reading http://philosophy.stackexchange.com/questions/9118/what-are-the-major-criticisms-of-the-labour-theory-of-value

The first sentence claims all value comes from labor.

But value comes in 2 flavors:
Use-value measures the consumer's desire of the product.
Exchange-value measures the consumer's lack of property.

When a consumer owns enough property, he no longer buys that product, so exchange-value for him is 0 (or undefined) simply because the transaction of selling/buying the product does not occur.

For example, the owner of a nut tree must pay all the costs of production, including wages for work he does not do himself, but he does not buy the nuts from himself - they are *already* his property - even before they are grown.  He owns all nuts that tree will ever produce, and must only pay the real costs of that production.
He does not buy the nuts.

The owners of an orchard could do the same.
They do not buy the nuts.

This proves exchange-value can be zero (or asymptote) independent of wages.


2017-01-06: Need a new name for the business-model approach.
