2015-12-31: Watched the movie 'Tangerine'.  luuuuvd it!

Team Gotti Anthem by DJ Lightup and DJ Heemie
Taliban by Haterade and Skellism
Feelin by Matthew Engst and Tobias Karlsson
Hope by White Night Ghosts
Got Beats by Duwell
Decadence by White Night Ghosts
Up In Jam by Fatima Hajji
Beat By Beat (Instrumental) by BritneyHouston
Fire Within by Bern Nix Quartet
Octo Div by Okko
Toyland by Julian Wass and Mya Taylor
Gotta Get Home by Okko
LUV by DJ Nato Feelz
Get Busy by Mr. Mermaid
The Dream of the Unknown Visitor by Federico Cerruti

2015-12-31: watched geoff lawton talk about urban agriculture

2015-12-31: imputation re-aligns production with social goals.

I do not fully understand the mechanisms or results of these changes.

When the consumers of a product are the owners of the sources, and accept the product itself as the return on investment, there is no sale, and so no profit and no sales-tax.

But there are so many other benefits.
. Consumers are finally in control and no longer need to beg owners to do the right thing.
. Swapping skills early (committing to do work for others *in the future* in exchange for others do work for you) appears to undo the usual desire to increase employment, so automation and robotics become worker allies instead of enemies.  For example, imagine you, as a mechanic, contract with a dentist to fix his car when needed in return for him fixing your teeth when needed.  Both of you want to do as little work as possible, and so seek real and long-term solutions instead of wishing for trouble.  [This explanation doesn't expose how we could have missed such a powerful arrangement that re-aligns workers with society.]
. Similarly, none of the investor/owner/consumers desire artificial scarcity or planned obsolescence because those tactics do not increase their ROI of use-value.

This is far from complete, but the full picture eludes me at the moment.

2015-12-31: It seems nearly impossible to relay the profound effects of Crowd Control.

2015-12-30: We have lost all respect for use-value, now believing only exchange-value has any worth.

Product is the owner's natural return
Property is the consumer's investment
Promises are the worker's investment
Profit is the payer's investment
Division is the owner's right

2015-12-29: You do not buy that which you already own.

The owner of Sources is the owner of all *potential* Products of those Sources, even before the products are produced.

When you own an Avocado tree, you also own all the Avocados that will ever come from that tree.

When you co-own an Avocado orchard, you also own part of all the Avocados that will ever come from that orchard.

There seems to be an almost universal confusion causing people to believe those owners must do the work.  This is likely caused by my faulty presentation accidentally promoting thinking in that direction.

It is also commonly assumed we can only organize production in this way as individuals in solitary confinement.  Most everyone understands gardening at the household level has some value, but without economy of scale, it can never be a real replacement because it takes far too much time and skill for most people.

We can use property ownership in groups to achieve our goals.


2015-12-29: Went to a nearby coffee-shop hoping to find a place to study.
As always, our lack of ownership creates a sad, cold and even boring experience.
The workers are paid to pretend to care, but their disgust shines through.
I am not allowed to operate any of the tools, even if I meet the skill and sanitation requirements.
I do not know anybody here, and it is too expensive to do this every day.
I wonder if there is another person on earth that would consider this a problem.
There seems no way to relay this alternative without multiple levels of misunderstanding.
Some think I am just a cheapskate that is blindly bitching about the price.
They might think I am trying to change this exact business instance.
I am not.  I know that will not happen.
I am trying to explain a GNU way to do business that is better for all of us.
I am not saying the consumer must be the worker.  I am saying I want the option.
I am not saying the current owners have done anything 'wrong' in a moral sense (they are innocent by ignorance).


2015-12-29: The advantages of Crowd Control are extremely difficult to relay.

2015-12-18: Working on the Crowd Control business model.

2015-12-17: OSCE Game

Let's brainstorm how we might represent the differences between OSCE and the 'typical' economy.

Suggested points of consideration:

Who funds production?

What value do those investors receive?

Who owns the Means of Production (land, tools, organisms).

Who does the work?

What value do those workers receive?

What should be done with Profit?

Can the organization be split (is forking allowed in the physical realm).


2015-12-14:


2015-12-14:
Sustainable-Manufacturing.net

2015-12-11:
https://github.com/google/upb parsers


2015-12-10:

Consumers lending to business:
 Communitysourcedcapital.com
 Clovest.com


2015-12-10: Met with my friend Andrew Gardner.

He described an astoundingly simplified calculus he has discovered, and how to apply 'fractacality' to that, giving surprisingly clean solutions to many complex problems.


2015-12-09:
                breadlandia


2015-12-09: trying to concentrate on my resume

2015-12-08:
Must the value that flows
be against our real goals?

2015-12-??:
Ugh, so much lenovo bloatware on my laptop.

Wikipedia.org/wiki/Tax_choice

Testing Chocolatey.org in Windows 10
