2014-07-06: Recently thinking I should re-align with the Free Sofware/Open Source phenomenon to take advantage of the increasing desire for Free as in Freedom Production.

User Freedom:   Ownership based on use gives users product.
Worker Commit:  Promises as investment gives workers property.
Source Control: Profit as investment auto-distributes growth.
Fork Whenever:  Secede for any reason.

2014-07-06: Excessively minimal outline:
Join: When you commit Property, Promises or Profit.
Fork: When you want to escape the rule of majority.

2014-07-02: Absolute property rights are a static and so incomplete solution to a dynamic problem.

Those who own more productive sources than needed to produce what they can use directly are able to accumulate even more property by charging profit against those who buy those products, and using that profit to purchase more property.

Notice these owners pay only costs and never profit for those products.

This concentrates wealth into the hands of the few, and is the fundamental basis of the rich getting richer as the poor get poorer.

The solution is to convert profit to property and then 'reflect' that growth to those who paid for it, causing all users to slowly gain the sources needed to produce the products they use.

Since source-owners never pay profit this also safely drives profit toward zero even while keeping those investors satisfied as they receive the product itself as a natural side-effect of owning those sources.

2014-07-01: When work commitments are made before production begins and are based on results instead of effort, the exchange-rate or ratio between services is "locked in" and so each participant has no incentive to increase their own work-load.

For example, let's say you commit to maintain a fleet of shared cars for a dentist (and/or for any other peer or group of peers who commit to work for the dentist directly, or indirectly, to any arbitrary depth that finally resolves to the dentist receiving commitments to operate or maintain the sources he owns for the products he needs), in return for the dentist committing to fix your teeth when needed.

In this scenario, you, as a mechanic, hope the cars never need repair, and the dentist hopes your teeth never need repair.

This is a deep and profound change from traditional market dynamics that otherwise has the workers hoping for more work and so making subtle choices to make results more temporary than permanent to insure future work for themselves.
