2015-11-19: 

2015-11-18: YouTube.com/watch?v=OSGv2VnC0go

2015-11-18: ugh, must prove I can code...
indeed.com
linkedin.com
dice.com

monster.com
beyond.com
jobcase.com
jobsradar.com
velvetjobs.com
ziprecruiter.com

topcoder.com
guru.com
toptal.com
WeWorkRemotely.com
krop.com

2015-11-16: rethinking the story...

The farmer can only make wheat.
The miller can only make flour.
The baker can only make bread.

The baker promises to bake bread for the farmer and the miller.
The farmer promises to grow grain for the baker and the miller.
The miller promises to make flour for the baker and the farmer.


2015-11-13: posted to https://www.facebook.com/groups/zerostate/permalink/1244964068862789

Claims:
1. Property is inversely related to Profit*.
2. Crowd-Funding is an interest-free loan.

Most people pay 1/3 -> 1/2 of their income for interest paid for housing (either directly as a mortgage or indirectly as rent to an owner with a mortgage).

If we could stop paying that interest, the effect would be as good as a very large pay increase.

We will Crowd-Fund cheap agricultural land and compensate workers with ownership instead of wages.

Some of us will move there in tents as we build the first of the shared structures and begin planting the permaculture.

This production arena must be large and complex enough to supply a "Basic Outcome" for the workers plus enough goods and services to pay the Crowd-Fund investors.

We will do all of this without loans, and so without paying interest.

Investors receive Product as a natural side-effect of being the co-owners of the production arena.

Workers are treated the same as investors, and so also become co-owners and receive all they need (food, shelter, medical care, transportation, communication) as a natural side-effect of their co-ownership in each of those industries.

Lack of economy-of-scale makes this unrealistic for single individuals.

But we can achieve economy-of-scale in groups.

This returns consumers to the helm of production, where they belong and eliminates our insane drive to perpetuate employment; so simplification, automation and robotics become our friends.

And we can achieve diversity in production if the group is large enough to supply the labor needed to achieve those goals.

This creates a "Basic Outcome" for those participants and reduces the need to move tokens within that production arena toward buying inputs from outside that have not yet been fully vertically integrated.

When the consumer of some product is the owner of the sources or the means of that production and accepts the product as the return on investment, then the price he pays as a consumer is exactly the costs he paid as an owner, and so price == costs and profit does not exist because the transaction did not occur.

This shows the origin of profit is the consumer's lack of ownership in the means of production.

And so we can create business that safely operates at zero profit without harming investors iff (if and only if) the consumers are the investors and owners.

Crowd funding is a baby step in this direction, but we need property ownership (tempered by a Terms of Operation enforcing a set of constraints in the material world similar in purpose to the GNU GPL in the virtual realm.)

But we must also care for latecomers (the dynamic case).

Imagine we sell the surplus of such a corporation to non-owners and collect a profit during that transaction.

If we treat some % of that profit as an investment from the payer, then these late consumers slowly gain the ownership needed to also receive the product at cost as a result of their property ownership in the means of production.

This flies in the face of the typical assumption that the workers must bear the costs of ownership.

But it is actually to the workers' advantage to not have that enormous cost - let the damn customers pay for all the land and tools!

So a big part of the reason we use money is to buy products.  But you do not need to buy that which you already own!  If you are part owner of a dairy, then you do not need to buy milk because you own your portion already.

Another, separate reason we usually need  money is to pay and receive wages for work that needs to be done.

Time banking comes close to solving this, but has fundamental flaw in the time-order of it's operations.

It is crucial that workers be able to issue their part of this insuring-currency *before* they do the work.

Think of it as a "promise to pay" in the form of future labor.


When combined with properly distributed property and sufficient vertical integration, we remove nearly all of usual need to pass tokens within that community.

This is a two part optimization that uses property to "pre-distribute" goods and uses promises to "predictively-schedule" services.

This forms the basis of a true insurance for any good or service we wish to guarantee.

These are 'titles' instead of 'tokens'.  They are backed by both:

1.) The property needed to create a future product.
2.) The promises needed to create a future product.

These titles can be used as a currency when the property or promises that back them was improperly allocated (maybe someone changed their mind about wanting peaches, and so wants to sell their portion of the orchard, or maybe had an accident and cannot pick peaches, and so must re-negotiate with the community to do some other work).

See also: http://CrossCrowdPredictiveProduction.github.io




2015-11-11: Restarting Crowd Control

2015-11-02: Thinking of groups similar to OSCEDays.org

http://Appropedia.org "Our vision is that all of humanity is able to work together developing and realizing rich, sustainable lives. We build the infrastructure, and help make the connections and populate free content to effect that vision. We provide the living resource library of individuals and organizations working towards a sustainable, healthier future, so that efforts can be spent evolving instead of duplicating past efforts."

http://OpenSourceEcology.org "We're developing open source industrial machines that can be made for a fraction of commercial costs, and sharing our designs online for free. The goal of Open Source Ecology is to create an open source economy -- an efficient economy which increases innovation by open collaboration."

http://OpenITAgency.eu "Hi, we are the Open It Agency. We are focussing on Open-Source-Hardware, -Design & -Collaboration. We do Consultancy, Education, Communication and Selected Technical Support and push own projects on Open Source for Sustainability. Browse this site for resources, get in touch with requests, or join one of our active projects."
