2017-09-27: Toward User Freedom in the Physical Realm

The GNU GPL uses Copyright to insure User Freedom in the immaterial world.

The User Freedoms are:
0. Use the Object for any purpose.
1. Modify the Object in any way.  This requires access to Sources.
2. Copy the Object for any reason.
3. Share original or modified copies.  This requires access to Sources.

Objects are like finished goods or services.
Sources are like the Means of Production.

I've been writing a Terms of Operation for real property attempting to map these concepts into the physical real.  Let me know what you think.

The Terms of Operation apply to physical Sources such as land, water, minerals, etc., but also to conglomerates such as tools, plants, animals, etc.

These Terms of Operation are a bit like a Tennancy in Common Agreement or maybe a Home Owner's Association Agreement that attempts to insure User Freedoms by projecting the perceived intent of the 4 User Freedoms onto the physical plane.

This can also be used as a Business Model or even as the kernel of a City Constitution.

The idea is to help users share real property the way the GNU GPL helps us share Intellectual Property ((apologies to Saint IGNUcius)).

The

0. Consumers buy and fully own the Sources needed for production without debt and have ultimate control of the Objects produced.  Each consumer+owner accepts the Object as ROI and there is no sale except surplus [explained below].  This means each consumer+owner is free to use the Objects they own for any purpose.  This requires a modified approach to crowdfunding [explained below].

1. 


to help us share the land and tools required to produce the goods and services we need.

These terms are meant to 

gain access to the Sources of the Objects they use.




A consumer must be able to:



2017-09-26: Profit measures the consumer's lack of ownership in the property required for that production.  This is easily proven by considering any consumer owning property for product does not buy so cannot pay profit on that missing transaction.

2017-09-24: Toward a simplified economic language:
property = land and tools
promises = commitments of future work
products = goods and services

costs = property + promises + time = product
price = what consumer's will pay
profit = price - costs


2017-09-23: Looking for a new name
team teem
group pwn
park buck
free land
microfund
cellbound
grid lock
stockmark
land bank
farm coin
foodstamp
area slip
playground
houseparty
for product
own now or nwo won
votax > voting and taxes

...
Insurance becomes assurance when we control property and promises.

