2018-06-28: Evaluating Urho3D.org, AtomicGameEngine.com, GODOTEngine.org, SuperPowers-HTML5.com

2018-06-28: The issues described at WeOwnIt.org.uk/blog/3-ways-you-can-expose-circus-water-privatisation can be addressed by owning private property For Product in reasonable sized groups with always the option to split (secede).

2018-06-21: DemocraciaGlobal.org/producto/grupo-trabajo-global-beyond-development-alternatives-in-world-of-crisis

2018-06-20: The Tyranny of the GNU GPL -- How User Freedom Destroys Exchange Value.

Exchange value is created when users buy products from other property owners.
Exchange value is eliminated when the final product is not sold.
We sell the product now because we own most property for profit.
Sales and profit are eliminated when users own property For Product, because the product itself is the ROI, so there is no sale; they price each pays as a consumer is exactly the costs each paid as a co-owner.

2018-06-20: Minsky.sf.net >>Minsky enables the simulation of models (particularly from economics) defined in terms of coupled ordinary differential equations. The models are defined using a drawing canvas (rather like VisSim), and a double entry bookkeeping system known as a Godley table.

2018-06-20:
OpenKnit.org >>
DoknItYourself.com >>Do knIt Yourself acts as an open-source clothing platform to share clothes virtually and freely.

2018-06-19: WarmingCenterProgram.com >>Warming Center Program ensures that no on has to sleep outside on the worst nights of winter.  There are far too few traditional shelter beds and not everyone can access them when and where they need to.  On nights of extreme temperature and rain, we create the opportunity for everyone who needs it, to seek warm, clean, safe and dignifying shelter.  docs.wixstatic.com/ugd/33de3c_dcfcce94328042b69505a51e254f0f00.pdf

2018-06-19:  >>About three in four clients at Sunnyvale Community Services are working families

2018-06-19:
"'The things humans need to thrive (food, clothing, shelter, learning, health, belonging and purpose) can be produced within a complex pattern of interactions that retains the capacity to convert sunlight at a high level. But not through a process that harvests products for sale in the market.

CP Foods and the homeowner co-own and divide among themselves everything that is produced.  It is the cycling of organic molecules within CP Foods and its partnerships that increases the capacity of life to convert sunlight.  CP Foods benefits through the increase in the production of organic molecules.  There is no need for a medium of exchange for these "internal" interactions.

This is how we avoid the market limitation on the production of abundance.'" -- TheCookAndTheGardner.Blogspot.com/2018/03/life-on-this-planet.html

2018-06-14: petbot: Small, self-parking, battery powered cleaning unit with different covers and personalities emulating various animals (real or imaginary) while it works.

2018-06-14: Morphing Furniture: Set of small, cushioned cubes that easily stack and locked/unlock to quickly change shape.

2018-06-12: Wikipedia.org/wiki/Chartalism >>In macroeconomics, chartalism is a theory of money which argues that money originated with states' attempts to direct economic activity rather than as a spontaneous solution to the problems with barter or as a means with which to tokenize debt,[1] and that fiat currency has value in exchange because of sovereign power to levy taxes on economic activity payable in the currency they issue.

"'A prince, who should enact that a certain proportion of his taxes should be paid in a paper money of a certain kind, might thereby give a certain value to this paper money; even though the term of its final discharge and redemption should depend altogether on the will of the prince'" -- Adam Smith, An Inquiry into the Nature and Causes of the Wealth of Nations

2018-06-08: >>Libraries.io monitors 2,893,348 open source packages across 36 different package managers.

2018-06-08: wider.unu.edu/project/wiid-world-incomeinequality-database

2018-06-07:
"'The United States has the highest rate of income inequality among Western countries.   The $1.5 trillion in tax cuts in December 2017 overwhelmingly benefited the wealthy and worsened inequality.  The consequences of neglecting poverty and promoting inequality are clear.  The United States has one of the highest poverty and inequality levels among the OECD countries, and the Stanford Center on Inequality and Poverty ranks it 18th out of 21 wealthy countries in terms of labour markets, poverty rates, safety nets, wealth inequality and economic mobility.  But in 2018 the United States had over 25 per cent of the world’s 2,208 billionaires.  There is thus a dramatic contrast between the immense wealth of the few and the squalor and deprivation in which vast numbers of Americans exist.  For almost five decades the overall policy response has been neglectful at best, but the policies pursued over the past year seem deliberately designed to remove basic protections from the poorest, punish those who are not in employment and make even basic health care into a privilege to be earned rather than a right of citizenship.'" --  UNDocs.org/A/HRC/38/33/ADD.1

2018-06-03:
Profit is not what you think it is.

There is a special case of property ownership where profit does not exist.

When the consumers of a product are the owners of the Means of Production for that product *and* if they accept the product itself as the return on investment, there is no sale, and so the price each pays as a consumer is exactly the costs each paid as a co-owner, and profit goes missing because the usual final transaction of purchasing the product does not occur.

This is a generalization of Economic Imputation where property ownership in the INPUTS is used to "pre allocate" the OUTPUTS to the very people who will use them.

Profit measures a consumer's lack of control over production.
Control is primarily found in owning the Means of Production.

Profit is UNDEFINED,
when product is ROI.


2018-06-02:
Why is it so difficult for groups to own the property required to produce the few goods and services they actually need?

Nobody owns their home and food is completely out of our control.

We must solve the puzzle of shared property ownership.

We could crowdfund the purchase of some farmland and tools to begin building a private city, fully owned by those inhabitants.

This would allow us to escape the debt burden and make food nearly free.

But we must own that property For Product to keep the system stable.

If you like milk you can own shares in a dairy and so receive that product at cost (you do not buy it, it is already yours).

This eliminates profit in a safe manner - by eliminating usual final transaction.

Just as the single owner of a single cow does not buy milk from himself, and so cannot pay profit - and even cannot pay sales tax.

This generalizes Imputed Rent.

"'
More formally, in owner-occupancy, the landlord–tenant relationship is short-circuited. Consider a model: two people, A and B, each of whom owns property. If A lives in B's property, and B lives in A's, two financial transactions take place: each pays rent to the other. But if A and B are both owner-occupiers, no money changes hands even though the same economic relationships exists; there are still two owners and two occupiers, but the transactions between them no longer go through the market. The amount that would have changed hands had the owner and occupier been different persons is the imputed rent.
'" -- Wikipedia.org/wiki/Imputed_rent

To provide specialization without token-passing, we swap future work Promises before production begins in return for those workers receiving property ownership on a work-to-own basis - vesting as their real property as the work is completed.

