2014-02-18: Title ideas: nanofund, picofund

2014-02-16: Modular title ideas
CO Citizen Owned
SS Security Social
VI Vertically Integrated
HA Health Assurance
CC Cross Crowd
PP Predictive Production
BO Basic Outcome
PM Permaculture Mosaic

2014-02-15: Response to https://mail.google.com/mail/u/0/#inbox/14432437a5b68985
Hey Duane, good to hear from you.

My fascination with this subject continues;
partly because of it's apparent complexity,
and partly because of it's actual simplicity.


Summary of the problem:
Capitalism requires investors and most investors
require profit and profit requires scarcity, and
so Capitalism usually requires scarcity.

Summary of the solution:
Capitalism requires investors but some investors
(consumers) will accept product, and in that case
Capitalism does not require scarcity.


I am working on a simplified and more complete
explanation which I will email to you soon.

Here is the index of that work:

-1. Crowd-funding reveals what is possible.
Crowd-funding shows that some consumers can be
investors who will accept the product itself as
the return on investment.

0. Investors must become real co-owners.
This gives the consumers absolute dominion over
production and eliminates profit naturally.

1. Product is the owner's natural return.
This is economic imputation and eliminates the need
to buy or sell the product because it is already in
the hands of those who need it.

2. Promises are the worker's investment.
This means workers will become co-owners in the
means of production *which they need the product*
and accept product as ROI, as all other owners.
This is probably the most complicated part of the
system and requires we have a production 'arena'
which has a wide variety of means of production
and can be used to "Swap Skills" as the basis of
what I call a "Basic Outcome".

3. Profit is the payer's investment.
This means late-coming Consumers will overpay for
product, just as in regular Capitalism, but we
will treat some % of that value as though they had
made an investment.  This causes all consumers to
eventually become owners and therefore stop paying
profit just as all other investors.

4. Secession is an inalienable right.
This is a (clumsy) attempt to solve the tyranny of
the majority problem.

Sincerely,
Patrick
