The For Product business model changes the flow of value and order of operations within a business to escape most rent-seeking.

The GNU GPL uses Copyright to require users gain access to the immaterial Means of Production (source code) for that product.

Similarly, the For Product business model uses Property rights to require users gain access to the material Means of Production (land and tools) for that product.

This creates a puddle of user freedom in the physical realm  where we can Share Property, Trade Promises, and Reflect Profit to deliver Products at cost while returning users to the helm of production.


== Terms of Operation
1. Money becomes Property:   Investors become real co-owners with rights of secession.
2. Property becomes Product: Investors are consumers paying early for things they need.
3. Promises become Property: Workers are consumers who also become owners as they work.
4. Profit becomes Property:  Consumers become owners if they overpay for surplus Product.


==== 1. Money becomes Property
Similar to crowdfunding, consumers prepay for future goods and services, but instead of just receiving one round of production, they become the real property owners of the land and tools that will be purchased for that production.

This is similar to equity-based crowdfunding, but in this case each investor is taking risk for the ancient reason that they simply want the results.

This allows the group to operate at zero profit even while all investors remain satisfied.  The compensation is the same amount as a For Profit investment, but inverted since the consumer *avoids* paying profit for that product.


==== 2. Property becomes Product
Each investor accepts the product itself as the direct and natural return on investment (ROI).

Investors receive the same value as from a For Profit investment, but as a reduction in price.

This protects them from profit they would otherwise pay when buying that product on the market.

The price each pays as a consumer is the costs each paid as a co-owner and there is no sale.

Each owns the same portion of the product as they own of the property used for that production.

Subgroups must be allowed to split the property and secede when it is realistically divisible.


==== 3. Promises become Property
Every worker is a consumer who must also own property to control the products he must consume.

Workers promise to accomplish future goals and receive property as those promises are fulfilled.

This replaces the rent or mortgage that would otherwise take most of the wages.

Vested Property can be used as collateral to access even more valuable Property.


==== 4. Profit becomes Property.
Owners may sell Products, but some % Profit from that payer must be invested *for that payer* toward either:
A. Expand operations by purchasing more Property.
B. Buying 'excess' Property sold by other owners.

This is the same pattern found in the GNU GPL which requires users gain at-cost access to immaterial Means of Production.

For example, if you sell fruit under these terms, some of the profit must either:

1. Create a LandBank entry for Property to be purchased in the future.
2. Join a LandBank group already in progress who are selling property.

CAUTION: If surplus is sold below market price it might be resold by others to collect profit without following these terms.



        ----------------------------END OF TERMS---------------------------



== Notes
When you invest in a For Product business, you become a real co-owner and accept the product itself as the return on investment.  You own the same % of the product as you own of land and tools required for that production.


Just as when you own a tree, you own the fruit,
when you co-own a forest, you co-own the fruit.

There is no sale when the owners are the eaters.
Profit does not exist when there is no sale;
the price each pays as a consumer is the costs
that same person paid as owner and the product
itself becomes the natural return on investment.


Paying others for work is a cost of production.
But every worker is a consumer needing Property.
So Promises become Property as work is finished.
This protects workers from paying consumer rent.



This system 'preallocates' products to the people who know they will need them.

Like crowdfunding, it brings sales to the beginning of the production chain.

But the crowd becomes the owners and accept the product as the natural return.

Workers who promise future labor receive immediate access to debt-free property on a work-to-own basis.  This means workers gain real property ownership incrementally, as they fulfill work promises.

Each co-owner may decide some of the product they own is more than they want, and so declare it as 'surplus' to be sold to consumers with insufficient ownership.

The price of surplus is set by the market, but some amount of profit must be treated as the payer's investment.  This causes those who pay profit to slowly gain property ownership in the land and tools needed to create future instances of that kind of product, and so eventually also avoid paying profit.


                ................


We, as groups of consumers, will crowdfund undeveloped land, tools and organisms For Product to finally regain direct control of production.

The minimum size of any group is set both by the quality of life target and upon the depth of grouping achieved - but also upon many other forces.

Those willing to live in tents and begin work will move onsite immediately to build the first central shared structure and begin permaculture installation of the plants and animals we need.


               ....


We will crowdfund property For Product to escape usury on many levels.

Paying workers with property means they do not pay debt or rent for housing and do not pay profit for the goods and services they need.

Owning property For Product is imperfect assurance of future production.  This replaces the fragile, for profit, token-based insurance industry.

When you accept product as ROI, you do not buy; it is yours already.

This eliminates the final sale in a natural way - similar to how you do not buy nuts from yourself when you own the tree, even if someone else does the work.

This also changes the focus of the company from exchange-value to use-value.  Those who own For Product gain no benefit when market scarcity increases profit on that product.  It realigns production with abundance and makes robots our friends.

When we hold property For Product, we can finally stop paying price-above-cost to bankers, profiteers, landlords and merchants.

Reflecting usury as property stabilizes the system.

Treating promises as the worker's investment does this for the worker.

Treating profit as the payer's investment does this for the consumer.


This model:
. Secures land and tools without debt.
. Secures worker housing without debt.
. Protects workers as the consumers they are.
. Realigns ownership with abundance.
. Returns consumers to the helm of production.
. Reframes work as a hurdle to overcome.
. Creates Health Assurance through a Basic Outcome.


==Older

====Property is the Investor's right.
When you invest Property, Promises or Profit, you receive real Property co-ownership under these terms.  Your vote is weighted by the amount you own.

To "invest Property" initially means you pay with plain-old-money to buy Property, but becomes more literal and as new money is backed by Property.
To "invest Promises" means you commit to future labor as described below.
To "invest Profit" means you buy surplus product as described below.


====Product is every Owner's Return.
Given: If you own a plant, you own the fruit and do not buy.
Given: If you own a plant with others, each owns their part.
Claim: We can use property ownership to preallocate product.

Investors become real owners in the property used for production and receive the product as a natural side-effect of that ownership.

Similar to crowdfunding, investors are consumers who prepay for future product, but here investors are real property owners that own the product automatically and so do not buy.


====Promise is a Worker's Investment.
Workers are treated as special kind of investor that receive property on a "work-to-own" basis when they commit to work in the future for other investors.  This property vests incrementally as the work is completed, giving workers immediate access and eventually debt-free ownership in all the property needed to produce all their food, housing, clothing, sanitation, health care, etc. as long as they fulfill those promises.

Some investors will choose live on-site from the beginning in temporary structures to begin building the first shared housing structure.  Agriculture should be integrated in the community in a careful way to achieve the same beauty as ornamental species while also creating the food security we must have.

Skills and capability must be proven, in some cases on a daily basis (to operate dangerous machinery, for example).

On-site investors also need immediate shelter (even if just tents), cooking tools to turn raw ingredients into nearly free food, a rigorous sanitation plan, first aid supplies and references to enable low-cost, on-site basic healthcare.

Trading promises early in time allows us to specialize without passing tokens by solving the "simultaneous coincidence of wants" problem that faces typical barter.  This arrangement also reverses the usual drive to perpetuate work and promotes permanent solutions.

Jobs could be offered through a reverse-bid auction.

Worker guilds might help 'buffer' owners from the whims of individual workers.

Each group can arbitrarily include or exclude any individual worker or guild.

====Profit is the Payer's Investment.
Surplus may be sold at any price, but part* of that profit must be used to buy more property vesting to the consumer who paid.

The GNU GPL requires users gain access to the immaterial Sources of every object they use.
For Product requires consumers gain access to the material Sources of every product they use.

For Product does this by 'reflecting' part of profit back to the consumer who paid it as their investment in either buying surplus property or new property.  So when you buy some surplus product, you automatically receive property ownership in the land and tools required to create yet more of that good or service.

Under these terms, whenever a consumer pays profit, they gain a small amount of ownership in the land, water, plants, animals, tools, etc. required to create future copies of that product.

This causes the physical sources of production to be incrementally and continuously redistributed to those who pay for that growth.  As those consumers gain property ownership in farms and factories, they regain control of production and pay only real costs.

Treating some profit as an investment from the payer causes property to be automatically distributed to those who paid for that growth and causes profit to naturally approach zero.

(*) The more Profit treated as Payer Investment, the more quickly the system will stabilize.


====Subgroups may split the property.
Under constraint of realistic divisibility, subgroups must be allowed to split from the majority while retaining property rights - allowing cells to divide and wield their own localized governance.
