We have been taught the baker should own the bakery.

But what about the workers that must buy that bread?
And what if we could automate that work with robots?

We must look again with fresh eyes to see that every worker is also a consumer and it is the ability to consume that we must protect.

We can buy and co-own the farms and factories for which we need results.  When we own the sources of production and accept the product itself as the return on those investments, the price we pay as consumers is exactly the costs we paid as owners, and so profit does not even exist because the usual transaction of buying/selling the product does not occur.

This is one part of the solution to how we will organize in a fundamentally different manner that will allow us to operate more economically and ecologically efficient.

Another part of the puzzle is to treat promises to work in the future as cross-investments in the means of production for which that person needs products.

This allows us to swap skills without the usual problem of simultaneous coincidence of wants faced by traditional barter.

When used together, these two optimizations create an imperfect insurance for any good or service we would like to guarantee and nearly eliminates the usual need to pass tokens within that society.

The next part of the puzzle is a negative-feedback loop required to keep the system stable as it scales in size.

Profit measures the payer’s dependence upon the current owners.

Treating profit as a reward for the current owners accumulates wealth and power.

While treating profit as payer's investment causes ownership to be automatically distributed to those willing to pay for that growth instead of concentrating into the hands of a few originators.

...

We must protect the worker’s ability to consume.

There is no need to glorify work, especially considering robots will soon be doing most of what the poorest people now do.

Why burden the worker with the expense of ownership?

Do you believe the worker should be able to charge more than you are willing to pay?

If consumers have sufficient ownership in the bakery, it will do the workers no good to also have ownership because the only way the workers can charge more than the market will bear is by stopping others from competing for those jobs.

And yet, if the consumers have sufficient ownership, they can just hire any willing worker or replace them with a machine.

Workers need ownership in the physical sources of the products they need to consume so they have a solid footing from which they can demand a higher wage or ignore offers they consider too low.

Free software is all about insuring the consumers have access to the sources, and once that is achieved, the workers (developers) are no longer able to overcharge for the work for they do because competition between workers then perfect since any capable worker can begin with zero barriers to entry.

This is Cross Crowd Predictive Production.
