Related: IOTA, microfund, Crowd Control

This is a plan for groups to own and control the production of all the goods and services they need without help from corporations, governments or banks.

The land, tools and work needed to create a privately owned micro city are secured without debt through a modified crowdfunding campaign.

===Terms of Operation
.1 When you prepay for products, you become a real property owner in the land and tools needed for that production and accept the product itself as the return on that investment.

.2 When you promise to work in the future, you receive access to property that vests on a work-to-own basis.

.3 When you pay profit while buying surplus, some of that profit is treated as your investment, causing you to become a real property owner in the land and tools needed for that production.  This is patterned after the GNU GPL requiring Users gain access to source code.


====Timeline
Estimate scale of property and promises needed to create an acceptable standard of living.

Crowd Fund the land and tools we need with perks being the goods and services we produce.

Those who pay with money become property owners, accept the product as ROI and so avoid paying profit.

Those who pay with commitments to work (Promises) receive immediate access to property which vests incrementally to protect the rest of the group from someone who refuses to do the work they promised to do.

Work returns to a problem we can safely minimize and automation becomes our friend.

Treating profit as the payer's investment distributes growth to those who pay for it.

====Definitions
Production: Mixing Time, Property and Promises into Products.
Products:   Any good or service such as a sandwich or bus ride supplied by production.
Property:   Physical assets such as land, water, tools, etc.  required for production.
Promises:   Legally binding commitments to work in the future required for production.


----
GlobalChallenges.org/en/the-prize/criteria
"'
Rules for Participation in the Competition Global Challenges Prize 2017 - A New Shape

    Arranged by the Global Challenges Foundation

                Introduction

Today, mankind lives not only in national societies, but also in a global community. This means
that the behavior and decisions of the inhabitants of nation states also impact the vital
interests of inhabitants of other countries. Global warming may be the most obvious example:
Greenhouse gas emissions in any particular country will have an impact on global climate change.

The world community is facing a number of major global challenges which have to be jointly
managed by all countries through increased co-operation and an increased understanding of our
interconnectedness. Other than climate change, the major problems and risks are other large-scale
environmental damage and politically motivated violence (war, civil war, terrorism, weapons of
mass destruction). Other major problems faced are extreme poverty and rapid population growth.

Rapid population growth – the global population has quadrupled over the last 100 years (which is
one of the main reasons for the problem we face today), and is expected to increase by another 50
percent by the year 2100 – exacerbates all these problems. Despite this, and despite the
knowledge that there are not nearly enough resources on the planet for the entire population of
Earth to enjoy the current Western standard of living, the issue is not on the political agenda.

In order to manage these challenges, we need effective ways of making collectively binding,
long-term decisions that take into account the interests of all those affected, including future
generations. The system currently in place to manage these issues – including the UN and the
organizations connected with the UN – are, in their present form, not up to the task. Today,
these challenges are responded to using yesterday’s tools – multilateral negotiations which are
susceptible to short-term national interests. As a consequence, the necessary action is either
not taken or is taken too late, while the problems and risks continue to grow.

The Global Challenges  Foundation wants to challenge participants from all over the world to
formulate alternatives to the present state of affairs – either by complementing, strengthening
and revising the present UN system, or by proposing completely new forms of governance. The
proposals should be drafted with the aim of identifying and, as far as possible, preventing or
minimizing challenges of the kind mentioned above.

The Task

The participant must design a governance model able to effectively address the most pressing
threats and risks to humanity. In other words, the task is not to come up with direct solutions
to specific problems. Rather, it is to design a general model for decision-making, with the aim
of generating such solutions and the ability to do so, and possessing the resources to
effectively implement them.

The governance model must also be such that it can be implemented within the foreseeable future.
This requires that it be acceptable to major states and the wider international community. A
significant measure of civic acceptance is also required. This requirement eliminates models that
rely on time-consuming and controversial changes in the political system of individual states,
e.g. models that postulate that all states should be democracies.

Furthermore, the governance model must involve a minimum of limitations to the sovereignty of
nation-states, meaning that it should involve only such limitations as are necessary to ensure
that national decisions do not seriously harm the vital interests of inhabitants of other
countries, or of humanity as a whole. In other words, decisions within the governance model must
not deal with the internal affairs of individual states.

The entries must consist of the following three parts:

1. Abstract (no more than 1000 words)
The abstract must summarize the design of the model, including the institutions, regulations,
decision-making paths and control mechanisms it involves, as well as how key individuals and
other decision-making bodies are to be appointed.

2. Description of the Model (no more than 5500 words)
The document must be divided into subsections with clear and descriptive headings. The
Participant must clearly define the functions of the various components, their areas of
responsibility and the extent of their decision-making mandate. Also, describe how the model is
meant to manage both current and emerging challenges and risks.

3. Argumentation demonstrating how the model meets the assessment criteria (no more than 2750
words)
For each of the criteria listed below, the participant must provide convincing arguments as to
how the proposed model meets the criterion.

Assessment criteria

Entries will be assessed based on how well they can be expected to manage global challenges and
meet the criteria listed below:

1. Core Values.
Decisions within the governance model must be guided by the good of all humankind and by respect
for the equal value of all human beings.

2. Decision-Making Capacity.
Decision-making within the governance model must generally be possible without crippling delays
that prevent the challenges from being adequately addressed (e.g. due to parties exercising
powers of veto).

3. Effectiveness.
The governance model must be capable of handling the global challenges and risks and include
means to ensure implementation of decisions. 

4. Resources and Financing.
The governance model must have sufficient human and material resources at its disposal, and these
resources must be financed in an equitable manner.

5. Trust and Insight.
The trust enjoyed by a successful governance model and its institutions relies on transparency
and considerable insight into power structures and decision-making.

6. Flexibility.
In order to be able to fulfil its objectives effectively, a successful governance model must
contain mechanisms that allow for revisions and improvements to be made to its structure and
components.

7. Protection against the Abuse of Power.
A control system must be in place to take action if the organization should overstep its mandate,
e.g. by unduly interfering with the internal affairs of nation-states or favouring the special
interests of individuals, groups, organizations, states or groups of states.

8. Accountability.
It is a fundamental requirement of a successful governance model that it performs the tasks it
has been charged with, and the governance model must include the power to hold the
decision-makers accountable for their actions.

Terms &amp; conditions

When the Global Challenges Foundation chose to extend the competition deadlines, we also took the
opportunity to clarify some of the rules and criteria of the competition, based on questions we
have received. The following are changes that have been made in the Terms and Conditions of the
Global Challenges Prize 2017: A New Shape.

Acceptance of the terms and conditions of this agreement (the "Competition Terms and Conditions")
is a prerequisite for participation in the Prize Competition (as defined below) arranged by the
Global Challenges Foundation, with registration number 802477-3494, and address Birger Jarlsgatan
57 C, Stockholm Sweden (the "Foundation"). The Foundation is a non-profit foundation and the
Foundation does not conduct any business or have any commercial interests. For the avoidance of
doubt, the Prize Competition should not be interpreted as promoting any interest of the
Foundation other than the development of a global governance model.

By clicking "I accept", the individual or legal entity submitting a registration to participate
in the Prize Competition (the "Participant") undertakes to comply with, and be bound by, the
Competition Terms and Conditions in conjunction with participating in the Prize Competition by
submitting a competition entry in accordance with the provisions set out herein and otherwise
communicated by the Foundation (the "Competition Entry"). The Participant also confirms that the
age of the Participant is above the age limit, as set out in applicable law, to participate in
the Prize Competition and that the Participant has read and understood the Foundation's Privacy
Policy.

If the registration to participate is submitted on behalf of a legal entity, the individual
submitting the registration must be authorized to sign on behalf of such legal entity.

The Foundation and the Participant are also referred to below as the "Parties" and individually
as a "Party".

<span>Background and Introduction</span>

A. The purpose of the Foundation is to raise awareness of the greatest threats facing humanity.
In particular, the Foundation seeks to raise awareness of climate change, other environmental
damage and political violence, and how these threats are linked to poverty and the rapid growth
in the global population.

B. In the course of its activities, the Foundation intends to arrange a prize competition
concerning the matters as set out and described under C to E below and in accordance with the
provisions set out in these Competition Terms and Conditions (the "Prize Competition").

C. Today, mankind lives not only in national societies, but also in a global community. This
means that the behaviour and decisions of the inhabitants of nation states also impact the vital
interests of inhabitants of other countries. Global warming may be the most obvious example:
Greenhouse gas emissions in any particular country will have an impact on global climate change.

D. The world community is facing a number of major global challenges which have to be jointly
managed by all countries through increased co-operation and an increased understanding of our
interconnectedness. Other than climate change, the major problems and risks are other large-scale
environmental damage and politically motivated violence (war, civil war, terrorism, weapons of
mass destruction). Other major problems faced are extreme poverty and rapid population growth.

E. Rapid population growth – the global population has quadrupled over the last 100 years (which
is one of the main reasons for the problem we face today), and is expected to increase by another
50 percent by the year 2100 – exacerbates all these problems. Despite this, and despite the
knowledge that there are not nearly enough resources on the planet for the entire population of
Earth to enjoy the current Western standard of living, the issue is not on the political agenda.

In order to manage these challenges, we need effective ways of making collectively binding,
long-term decisions that take into account the interests of all those affected, including future
generations. The system currently in place to manage these issues – including the UN and the
organizations connected with the UN – are, in their present form, not up to the task. Today,
these challenges are responded to using yesterday’s tools – multilateral negotiations which are
susceptible to short-term national interests. As a consequence, the necessary action is either
not taken or is taken too late, while the problems and risks continue to grow.

The Foundation wants to challenge participants from all over the world to formulate alternatives
to the present state of affairs – either by complementing, strengthening and revising the present
UN system, or by proposing completely new forms of governance. The proposals should be drafted
with the aim of identifying and, as far as possible, preventing or minimizing challenges of the
kind mentioned above.

<span>1. General rules governing the Prize Competition</span>

a) The Prize Competition is open to anyone - individuals, groups of individuals, companies,
associations, universities and other legal entities - anywhere in the world, provided the
relevant individual(s) is/are above the age limit, as set out in applicable law, to participate
in the Prize Competition and is not a Restricted Person (as defined below). Every Competition
Entry requires one contact person – referred to below and in other communications as a
"Corresponding Author" and such person will be regarded as the Participant. However, if a
Competition Entry has more than one author, all authors must register and confirm their
participation in the Prize Competition in order to be recognized as the Participant(s) and
co-authors of the relevant Competition Entry. The Corresponding Author will be the contact person
for the Competition Entry and responsible for communications with the Foundation. In addition,
the Corresponding Author will be considered responsible for ensuring the Competition Entry’s
compliance with these Competition Terms and Conditions. If the Corresponding Author is submitting
a Competition Entry on behalf of a legal entity, the legal entity in question will instead be
considered the Participant.

b) Participation is free of charge, and no fees or other costs will be charged to the
Participants.

c) A Participant must register his or her interest in participating in the Prize Competition by
registering at <nobr>https://globalchallenges.org</nobr>. Upon registration, the Participant will receive
further information on how to submit a Competition Entry. The registration period is open from 24
November 2016 until 31 March 2017. A Participant may register his or her interest in
participating in the Prize Competition later than 31 March 2017, but the Foundation reserves the
right, in its sole discretion, to decline a registration and the participation by a Participant
registered after 31 March 2017. Such late registered Participant will, as soon as reasonably
possible, be informed by the Foundation whether he or she may still be allowed to participate in
the Prize Competition. For the avoidance of doubt, registration does not result in any obligation
for the Participant to submit a Competition Entry.

d) Competition Entries can be submitted in English, Mandarin, Spanish, Russian, Arabic, and
French. Competition Entries in any other language will not be accepted.

e) Multiple Competition Entries from the same Participant are acceptable as long as they all
address the format of the Competition Entries as set out in section 2 below.

f) Participants can submit Competition Entries from 1 April 2017 until 30 September 2017. No
Competition Entries will be accepted after 30 September 2017. 

g) The Competition Entries will be reviewed and assessed in accordance with section 3 below.

h) The final results of the Prize Competition are expected to be announced in April 2018.

i) The Foundation will not accept any Competition Entries from participants that (as of 21 June
2016 onwards) are connected to the Foundation, such as employees, board members, agents or other
contracted consultants or any family member of any such persons ("Restricted Persons"). The
Foundation will not accept any Competition Entries of any such Restricted Person and reserves all
rights to disqualify any Competition Entry submitted by a Restricted Person.

<span>2. Content and Format of Competition Entries</span>

<span>2.1 The Task</span>

The participant must design a governance model able to effectively address the most pressing
threats and risks to humanity. In other words, the task is not to come up with direct solutions
to specific problems. Rather, it is to design a general model for decision-making, with the aim
of generating such solutions and the ability to do so, and possessing the resources to
effectively implement them.

The governance model must also be such that it can be implemented within the foreseeable future.
This requires that it be acceptable to major states and the wider international community. A
significant measure of civic acceptance is also required. This requirement eliminates models that
rely on time-consuming and controversial changes in the political system of individual states,
e.g. models that postulate that all states should be democracies.

Furthermore, the governance model must involve a minimum of limitations to the sovereignty of
nation-states, meaning that it should involve only such limitations as are necessary to ensure
that national decisions do not seriously harm the vital interests of inhabitants of other
countries, or of humanity as a whole. In other words, decisions within the governance model must
not deal with the internal affairs of individual states.

The contributions must consist of the following three parts:

a) Abstract (no more than 1000 words)

The abstract must summarize the design of the model, including the institutions, regulations,
decision-making paths and control mechanisms it involves, as well as how key individuals and
other decision-making bodies are to be appointed.

b) Description of the Model (no more than 5500 words)

The document must be divided into subsections with clear and descriptive headings. The
Participant must clearly define the functions of the various components, their areas of
responsibility and the extent of their decision-making mandate. Also, describe how the model is
meant to manage both current and emerging challenges and risks.

c) Argumentation demonstrating how the model meets the assessment criteria (no more than 2750
words)

For each of the criteria listed in section 2.2 below, the Participant must provide convincing
arguments as to how the proposed model meets the criterion.

In addition, Participants are permitted (but not required) to submit a maximum of two
supplementary non-text items such as graphs, figures, images or short film clips that assist in
the understanding of the model presented in the text ("Supplementary Material").  The
Supplementary Material may not contain extensive text elements and may not add new elements to
the model that were not explained in the text.

The Supplementary Material may be submitted in the form of attached files (PDF or JPEG) or links
to material. Each attached file may contain one page only, and any film or sound clips may not
exceed three minutes. For the avoidance of doubt, any Supplementary Material developed by a third
party author, i.e. not the Participant, requires the consent of the relevant third party author.

It is very important that any Supplementary Material – as well as texts in a) to c) – does not
identify the author in any way. Submissions will be anonymised before assessment, and any form of
identifier other than the information supplied in the author profile, may result in the
disqualification of the submission.

<span>2.2 Assessment criteria</span>

Entries will be assessed based on how well they can be expected to manage global challenges and
meet the criteria listed below:

a) Core Values

Decisions within the governance model must be guided by the good of all humankind and by respect
for the equal value of all human beings.

b) Decision-Making Capacity

Decision-making within the governance model must generally be possible without crippling delays
that prevent the challenges from being adequately addressed (e.g. due to parties exercising
powers of veto).

c) Effectiveness

The governance model must be capable of handling the global challenges and risks and include
means to ensure implementation of decisions.

d) Resources and Financing

The governance model must have sufficient human and material resources at its disposal, and these
resources must be financed in an equitable manner.

e) Trust and Insight

The trust enjoyed by a successful governance model and its institutions relies on transparency
and considerable insight into power structures and decision-making.

f) Flexibility

In order to be able to fulfil its objectives effectively, a successful governance model must
contain mechanisms that allow for revisions and improvements to be made to its structure and
components.

g) Protection against the Abuse of Power

A control system must be in place to take action if the organization oversteps its mandate, e.g.
by unduly interfering with the internal affairs of nation states or favouring the special
interests of individuals, groups, organizations, states or groups of states.

h) Accountability

It is a fundamental requirement of a successful governance model that it perform the tasks it has
been charged with, and the governance model must include the power to hold the decision-makers
accountable for their actions.

<span>3. Assessment</span>

a) The Foundation will conduct an initial review of the Competition Entries to ensure that the
Competition Entries fulfil and comply with the format of the Competition Entries as set out in
section 2 above.

b) All eligible and complete Competition Entries that comply with the format of the Competition
Entries as set out in section 2 above will be assessed by Review Panels (as defined below). Based
on the assessment criteria stated above, each Review Panel will select a number of Competition
Entries that will be assessed by an Expert Panel (as defined below). The Expert Panel will
develop a list of the best Competition Entries to be presented to the Jury (as defined below).
The list may also include Competition Entries that present unique solutions to certain
sub-problems or include good ideas on how to implement the new governance model.

c) Competition Entries will be assessed on the basis of how well they can be expected to fulfil
the criteria listed in section 2.2 above. In some cases, ensuring that certain goals are met may
make it harder to realize other goals. In such cases, trade-offs must be made. How well
participants manage such trade-offs will be an important factor in the assessment. Good ideas on
how to establish the governance model in reality will also be considered in the assessment.

d) The Expert Panel will present the list of Competition Entries to the Jury. The Jury will
review the listed Competition Entries and each Jury member will select Competition Entries that
have qualified for a final judging day to take place in Stockholm in April 2018 (the "Judging
Day").

e) The Participants of the qualified Competition Entries will be notified and invited to the
Judging Day. The Participants will be asked to present their Competition Entry before the Jury on
the Judging Day.

f) After the Judging Day, the Jury will evaluate the final Competition Entries and decide on the
winning Competition Entry/Entries and, if any, other Competition Entries to be awarded.

g) The decisions of the Review Panels, the Expert Panel and the Jury are final and may not be
appealed. 

h) No questions regarding how a particular Competition Entry has been assessed will be answered
by the Foundation and no other feedback will be given on a submitted Competition Entry.

i) The Review Panels will be appointed by the Foundation and will consist of academics and
practitioners with expertise in relevant fields (the "Review Panels"). There will be at least one
panel for each of the six languages that Competition Entries may be submitted in. Review Panels
will be regionally based, with at least one panel each for Western Europe, Eastern Europe
including Russia, Africa, South East Asia and China, South Asia, North America, South America and
the Middle East.

k) The jury will be a high-level international jury of respected global thought leaders (the
"Jury"). The Jury will be announced on the Foundation's website no later than June 30, 2017.

<span>4. Prize money</span>

a) The total prize money that may be paid out in the Prize Competition, in the sole discretion of
the Foundation, is five million U.S. dollars (USD 5,000,000). 

b) Should the Jury decide to award a Competition Entry first prize, such Competition Entry will
be awarded at least one million U.S. dollars (USD 1,000,000).

c) The prize money, five million U.S. dollars (USD 5,000,000), reduced by the amount awarded to
the winning Competition Entry (if any), may be allocated to other Participants and may be divided
in any number of equal or non-equal portions, all according to the value placed on the
Competition Entries as determined by the Jury in its sole discretion for the purpose of the Prize
Competition. For the avoidance of doubt, the Jury may decide to award a portion of the remaining
prize money to a Competition Entry that does not fulfil all of the formal criteria set out in
section 2 above.

d) Below are some examples of how the Jury may decide to divide the prize money among
Participants.

Example 1:

- The winning Participant: USD 3 million (USD 1 million for winning first prize + USD 2 million
of the remaining prize money)

- The second-place Participant: USD 1 million 

- Other Participant whose contribution did not fulfil all criteria to win but nevertheless
impressed the Jury: USD 1 million 

Example 2:

- The winning Participant: USD 5 million (USD 1 million for winning first prize + USD 4 million
of the remaining prize money)

Example 3:

- The winning Participant: USD 3 million (USD 1 million for winning first prize + USD 2 million
of the remaining prize money)

- The second-place Participant: USD 1 million

- The third-place Participant: USD 500 000

- The fourth-place Participant: USD 200 000

- Other Participant whose contribution did not fulfil all criteria to win but which nevertheless
impressed the Jury: USD 300 000 

e) Any prize money awarded to a Competition Entry will be divided equally between all
Participants that have been registered and confirmed as authors of the relevant Competition
Entry, unless the Foundation receives confirmation from all authors of the Competition Entry that
a different division of the prize money has been agreed upon. If the Competition Entry is
submitted on behalf of a legal entity, the prize money will be paid to that entity.

f) The Participants that have submitted winning Competition Entries will be notified individually
by post, telephone or e-mail. Other Participants will not receive any notification of the results
of the Prize Competition other than the information provided on the Foundation's website. 

g) The Foundation reserves all rights to conduct searches and perform due diligence in accordance
with applicable legislation on any Participants that may be awarded any prize money.

h) For the avoidance of doubt, the Foundation is under no obligation to pay any prize money to
any individual Participant, and no individual Participant is entitled to receive any sort of
compensation, financial or other, in connection with the Prize Competition other than prize money
(if any).

i) This prize money constitutes the total amount that will be paid for the winning Competition
Entries and covers all taxes, social security charges and other fees and charges of any kind
whatsoever payable by both the Foundation and the Participant, including VAT and similar taxes
and charges which are payable if the compensation is paid to a legal entity. The prize money will
be paid into the bank account provided by the Participant. The prize money will be paid out
within forty five (45) days after the winner(s) is/are announced.

<span>5. Intellectual property rights</span>

a) The Participant hereby grants to the Foundation a non-exclusive, irrevocable, transferable,
sublicensable, royalty-free, perpetual, worldwide right and license to use, reproduce, publish,
compile, execute, modify and create derivative works of the Competition Entry (in whole or in
part) and all rights relating thereto (including any related documentation). Such rights include,
but are not limited to, for example, the publication, assignment, forwarding or editing of the
Competition Entry to the extent desired by the Foundation. In conjunction with the use of the
Competition Entry, the Foundation shall safeguard the Participant’s moral rights in accordance
with generally accepted practices.

b) The fact that the Foundation elects to publish a Competition Entry does not automatically mean
that the Foundation shares the opinions expressed in the Competition Entry. 

c) Where the Participant is employed by another party (the "Participant's Employer"), the
Participant may not participate in the Prize Competition if the employment in any manner may
prevent the Participant from participating in or complying with the Participant's obligations or
assignment of rights hereunder unless the Participant's Employer has approved the Participant's
participation in the Prize Competition.

d) The Participant shall perform or execute (or procure the performance or execution of) any acts
or documents required by the Foundation that it may consider necessary or desirable to complete
or perfect the right and license described in section 5.

<span>6. Participant's warranties</span>

a) The Participant warrants that the Participant owns the copyright to the Competition Entry and
that all rights to the Competition Entry can be licensed to the Foundation in accordance with
section 5 above.

b) The Participant warrants that the Competition Entry does not infringe any third-party
intellectual property rights and undertakes to indemnify the Foundation for any costs and losses
of any kind whatsoever arising from any third-party claim that the submitted Competition Entry
infringes the rights of any third party or that a third party holds any rights to the Competition
Entry. 

c) The Participant warrants that the rights to use a submitted Competition Entry have not been
exclusively licensed or otherwise assigned or transferred to any third party. 

d) The Participant warrants that it is not prevented due to any employment from participating in
the Prize Competition and that the Participant has obtained the approval of the Participant's
Employer to the extent required for the Participant to fulfil all obligations hereunder,
including the obligation to transfer all rights related to the Competition Entry to the
Foundation as set out hereunder. 

e) The Participant warrants that a submitted Competition Entry does not constitute plagiarism and
complies with the standard for source referencing and references to other people’s work which
follow from Harvard's (or any other generally accepted reference system’s) bibliographical
references and source referencing standards. The Foundation may use online-based plagiarism
checks to detect plagiarism. 

f) The Participant warrants that the Participant is not prevented by any statutes, rules,
regulations, bylaws or contracts from entering into the Prize Competition.

<span>7. Compliance with law and prevention of money-laundering, corruption and bribery</span>

a) By accepting these Competition Terms and Conditions and participating in the Prize
Competition, the Participant acknowledges that:

(i) the Participant will not violate any applicable laws, regulations, policies or rules,
including relating to money-laundering, corruption, bribery, financing of terrorism or any other
similar offences; and

(ii) the award of any prize is not in exchange for an agreement to influence a recent, pending or
anticipated act or decision that may result in the Foundation obtaining or retaining business or
a business advantage or any other benefit.

b) The Foundation reserves all rights to conduct a Know Your Customer (KYC) assessment of the
Participant (to the extent permitted by law) and, in its sole discretion, to disqualify any
Participant who commits or might potentially commit any offence or breach as referred to in (a)
above.

<span>8. Applicable law and dispute resolution</span>

These Competition Terms and Conditions are governed by Swedish law, without the application of
its choice of law rules. Disputes arising from these Competition Terms and Conditions will be
determined by the courts of Sweden, the Stockholm District Court being the court of first
instance.

© 2017 Global Challenges Foundation.  All Rights Reserved.


models or frameworks for international cooperation, capable of addressing the interlinked risks and problems of climate change, other large-scale environmental damage, violent conflict (including nuclear and other weapons of mass destruction), extreme poverty, and expected continuing rapid population growth.

The competition is not looking for blueprints for solving the individual issues in question, or to avert specific risks. Rather, entrants should focus on designing a decision-making structure or framework that could galvanize effective international action to tackle these risks.  The proposed model may encompass an entirely new global framework or a proposed reform for existing systems.
'"
