Related: Crowd Control, Crowd Cache,

"'Questions for Authors of Works on New Models and Systems'" -- TheNextSystem.org/next-system-project-comparative-framework

>> Core Goals. Briefly, what are the principal, core goals your model or system seeks to realize?  Partly, this is a question about the scope of the conceptualization you have developed, so be sure to note whether it speaks to economic, social, political, and environmental outcomes or only some of these.

The primary goal is to design a new way for groups to organize production so they gain and retain real governance over the physical assets required to continuously reproduce their basic human needs.

This is done through a legally-binding social contract applied to crowdfunded, debt-free property.

The rules can be thought of as an alternate form of Wikipedia.org/wiki/Business_operations designed to align group goals with the rest of nature by changing how value flows within that group, how work is done, what must be done when trading with outsiders, or when subgroups want to split from the majority.

...

A variation of crowdfunding is used to buy farmland, tools, plants, animals, etc. without debt; allowing us to begin the pilot project almost immediately.

The property is used to make what appears to be a private city owned by the inhabitants.  Agriculture is carefully integrated with housing according to permaculture principles to create all the food, medicine, shelter, soap, clothing, etc. that group needs.

Unlike a consumer cooperative, the owners do not buy goods and services back from the group, but each owns their portion of the product automatically.

This eliminates profit, except when selling surplus to non-owners.

A worker's commitment to work in the future is treated as an investment that vests on a work-to-own basis - meaning these workers become debt-free co-owners in all the property required to create all they need, as they work promised is completed.

These workers do not have any bills or debt.

When selling surplus, we allow the market to set the price and collect profit, but then treat some of that profit as the payer's investment.  Treating profit as though the payer were investing causes ownership in the growth of the group to be automatically distributed to those who paid for that growth.  Over time, as non-owners continue to pay profit, they continue to gain property until the amount of property ownership is sufficient that the product is already the property of the consumer without purchase.  This eliminates profit for boring things, but there will always be some amount of profit being caused by changes in taste and because of new inventions, etc.



====                RULES OF ENGAGEMENT

1. Product is the Investor's return.
Investors are actually just consumers prepaying for future products.  These investors receive real co-ownership in the land and tools needed to create those products and accept the products themselves as the natural return on those investments.

Each co-owner of the property is the legal owner of a portion of the product in that same amount.

This means there is no sale and no purchase because, just as the owner of a single Apple tree owns all the Apples, each co-owner of an orchard under these terms is the owner of that same percentage of the fruit.

The group must still account for the amount each co-owner receives, so the number of transactions is the same; and the settings, such as a grocery store, a restaurant, a theater, a bus or taxi, etc. can look very similar, but each co-owner will actually just be collecting a product they already own.  To reiterate, the group must use proper accounting to protect themselves against someone who might try to collect more product than they really own.

This eliminates* profit within that group in a natural way and thereby reduces the usual drive toward scarcity.

(*) Except when selling surplus.  See #3



2. Promises are a Worker's Investment.
Workers receive property when they commit to work in the future.  This kind of investment differs from those who invest money, to protect other investors in case the job is not getting done.

This changes the purpose of work from a confused social necessity back to the natural desire to eliminate drudgery while assuring those who apply skills gain the property they need to live.

This is done by exchanging commitments of future work *before* production begins.

Workers slowly gain real, debt-free property ownership as they fulfill promises.

This property must vest incrementally, on a work-to-own basis, both to insure the worker gains ownership in the property represented by the amount of work completed, and to protect the group in case the worker refuses to keep his commitments.

Vested property ownership can be used to 'insure' the Worker as an offer of value back to the rest of the group when the worker is attempting a possibly destructive job (such as operating a tractor).

During the startup phase, workers must also be granted immediate access to all the food, shelter, sanitation, clothing needed to live onsite.



3. Profit is the Payer's Investment.
Each co-owner may always keep all of the product they own, even if others believe it is 'surplus'.

No co-owner is ever required to declare any of his product as 'surplus'.

If a co-owner chooses to sell some product, he may charge any amount, but must treat some part of the profits as the payer's investment.

This means the current owners are required to buy more land and tools, etc., on behalf of the paying customer, causing these latecoming overpayers to slowly gain the ownership they need for the future production of that very same product.  Eventually everyone will have enough property ownership in the production of their basic needs to guarantee they receive those goods and services under thier direct, local governance, at the real cost of that production.

This changes the purpose of growth from a confused social necessity back to the natural desire to help latecomers gain the property they pay for.

We allow the market to set the price, but then 'reflect' some amount of profit back to the person who paid it - by investing on their behalf, with that property eventually vesting fully to the payer, causing growth to be continuously distributed to those who pay for it.



4. Secession is an inalienable right.
Under constraint of realistic divisibility, subgroups must be allowed to split from the majority, allowing arbitrary-sized cells to form and wield their own localized governance.



>> Major Changes.  What are the principal changes you envision in the current system - the major differences between what you envision and what we have today?

By changing the purpose of ownership, work, and profit, these rules adjust the tragectory of this group, and eventually all of society, toward localized abundance and permanent solutions.

Workers and other investors gain real property ownership in all the property needed to maintain an extremely high quality of life without paying roalties to others.

This nearly guarantees the delivery of all the goods and services this group needs, for long as they can continue to supply the work required.

When we own property simply because we want product, and when work is something to be minimized, automation and robotics are seen as solutions.

Treating profit as the payer's investment causes those who overpaid to slowly gain the property they need to avoid paying profit in the future.



>> Principal Means. What are the principal means (policies, institutions, behaviors, whatever) through which each of your core goals is pursued?

Crowdfunding is used to aquire land and tools without debt to create a privately owned, mostly-self-sustained microcity.

Policy enforced through an internal set of rules as a sort of "Terms of Operation" or Constitution similar in purpose to an HOA or Tenancy in Common Agreement.

Though every group has the freedom to choose what they want to produce, some life-critical institutions are required for the safety of the group, and so all food, medicine, soap, paper, cloth, building materials, etc. will ideally (eventually) be created within that cell.  Both immediate needs and Vertical Integration must be part of how investments are used.

Behavior is modified by changing rewards for investing and working - finally making it safe to allow full abundance and at-cost access.



>> Geographic Scope. What is the geographic area covered by the model? If the nation-state, specify which ones or what category you address.

The pilot project probably needs between 10 and 100 acres of farmland.

The quantity and variety of goods and services will be limited in the beginning, but 3 months is enough to grow potatoes, tomatoes, onions, spices and chickens to have eggs, hashbrowns and toast.  On the other hand, some nut trees may not produce for 20 years.

Even the pilot project may have surplus within a year.

When the group starts selling surplus, they are required to invest some % as the payer's investment, so those who come late are able to gain the property needed to also avoid paying profit.

Implementation of this approach to profit-sharing could be done by using that portion to buy another chunk of farmland, whether near or far, where the overpaying latecomers will become owners.

Treating profit as the payer's investment will cause all consumers to incrementally gain ownership in all the property needed to produce all they need and so eventually also allows access without paying profit, interest or economic-rent.



>> Temporal Scope. Recognizing the large uncertainties, if there is a transition to the revised system about which you write, what would you suggest as a timeframe for the new system to take shape? Where on the spectrum from imminently practicable to purely speculative would you place your proposals?




>> Theory of Change. What factors or forces might drive deep change towards the system you envision? What is the explicit or implicit theory of change in your work? What is the importance of crises? Of social movements? Of available examples of change? What's the biggest problem or impediment for adoption of your model?

>> Specifics: Economy. Insofar as your work addresses the nature of the economy, how (if at all) do the following fit into the future you envision?

>> (a) How are productive assets and businesses owned? Does ownership differ at different scales (community, nation, etc.)? Do forms of ownership vary by economic sector (banking, manufacturing, health care, etc.)?

>>(b) How are public and private investment decisions made?

>>(c) What is the role of private profit and the profit motive? Who owns and controls economic surplus?

>>(d) What is the role of the market for goods and services? For employment? Other?

>>(e) What is the role of planning in your model? How is it structured? How, if at all, made democratic?

>>(f) How are the international economy and economic integration handled?

>>(g) How do you address economic localization, globalization, decentralization, 'glocalization,' and similar issues? Where is the primary locus of economic life?

>>(h) How do economic competition and cooperation play out?

>>(i) Do commodification, commercialization, and the commons surface in your analysis?

>>(j) How is private property handled in your analysis?

>>(k) What mix of business enterprise sizes do you envision?

>>(l) How do you envision the future of the large corporation and what specific measures do you envision for corporate governance and control, internal and external?

>>(m) What role do you see for innovative corporate forms, coops, public enterprise, social enterprise, and public-private hybrids?

>>(n) What is the evolution of the workweek (hours worked, say, per year)?

>>(o) What is the envisioned future of organized labor?

>>(p) What are the roles of economic growth and GDP as a measure of growth in your system? What is the priority of growth at the national and company levels?

>>(q) How is money created and allocated?

>>Some Specifics: Society
>>(a) How do you envision the future course of income and wealth inequality? What factors affect these results? How do you envision the future course of economic poverty? What factors affect these results?

>>(b) Are special measures envisioned to protect and enhance children and families? To advance the underprivileged? To promote care-giving and mutual responsibility?

>>(c) How do racial, ethnic, and religious justice figure in your work?

>>(d) What role do gender and gender issues play in your work?

>>(e) What, specifically, is the role of community in your model? What measures and factors affect community health, wealth ('social capital'), and solidarity, and how central are local life, neighborhoods, towns and cities?

>>(f) Do you envision a change of values, culture and consciousness as important to the evolution of a new system? If so, how do these changes occur?

>>(g) What are the roles of the consumer, consumerism, and advertising in the system you envision? Self-provisioning? Sharing, renting, and bartering?

>>(h) How do "leisure" activities-including volunteering, care-giving, continuing learning-figure in your work?

>>Some Specifics: Environment
>>(a) If your system addresses environmental concerns, how do you conceptualize "the environment"? Do you envision the economy as nested in and dependent on the world of nature and its systems of life?

>>(b) Do you address a rights-based environmentalism (e.g. right to clean water) and the idea that nature has legal rights? Do we have duties to other species and living systems? Are any of your goals non-anthropocentric?

>>(c) Do you envision addressing environmental issues outside the current framework of environmental approaches and policies (e.g. by challenging consumerism, GDP growth, etc.)?

>>(d) How do you handle environment-economy interactions, trade-offs, and interdependencies?

>>(e) How do you address transnational and global-scale environmental challenges?

>>(f) Does your work explore the links between large-scale environmental challenges (like climate change) and other economic and political issues?


>>Some Specifics: Polity
>>(a) To what degree would your proposed model require Constitutional change? What specifically might be required or recommended?

>>(b) Does your model have anything to say about liberty and how it may or may not relate to the design of your model? And how, specifically, is liberty nurtured and protected?

>>(c) How does your model address questions of political and institutional power?

>>(d) How does your model deal with problems of scale? How much decentralization does it include for large systems? How would decentralization be structured?

>>(e) Does your work address issues of foreign policy, international relations, regional integration, military policy and spending, war and peace, i.e. the international context of the new system? If so, how?

>>(f) At different political levels, what polity and what political conditions are implicit or explicit in getting to success?

>>(g) There is an ongoing critique of representative government and exploration of direct, "strong," and deliberative democracy. Does any of this figure in your framework? If so, how?

>>(h) Milton Friedman, among others, believed that only a crisis produced real change. Another old expression is that "good government is just the same old government in a helluva fright." Do you examine crisis-driven political change and crisis preparedness?


>>(i) How central is government in the future you envision, both in getting there and staying there?


>>(j) In the system you write about, what are the appropriate levels of government expenditure or government as a share of the economy and how are these levels achieved?


>>(k) Do you envision social movements as important in driving political change and action? If so, can you elaborate on how this happens?
A social movement can make real and lasting change through a carefully crafted constitution applied to real property ownership.

>>Real-World Examples, Experiments and Models
>>(a) Are there specific real-world examples or experiments you can point to that embody your model or system or exemplify important elements of your approach?

No.


>>(b) Are there other models that you see yourself aligned with or close to yours?

Richard Stallman, author of the GNU GPL and founder of the Free Software Foundation.

Marcin Jakubowski, founder of Open Source Ecology

Open Source Circular Economy

Michel Bauwens, founder of the P2P Foundation.

Yochai Benkler, Wikipedia.org/wiki/Commons-based_peer_production

http://Oekonux.org

http://keimform.de

http://FreeCulture.org

http://www.p2plab.gr/el/wp-content/uploads/2015/09/Futures.pdf

----------------------------------------------------------------

