Related: AGNUcius, resume

Hi all, this is Patrick Anderson * I am Very excited to be here! =-D

I have been developing a business-model based on mapping the patterns of the GNU GPL into the physical realm.

Here are three of the most important differences:

1. Consumers own the Means of Production and accept the Product as ROI.

Saint IGNUcius preaches about protecting *Users*, not *Developers*.

"'With free software, the users are in control.  Most of the time, users want interoperability, and when the software is free, they get what they want.  With non-free software, the developer controls the users.  The developer permits interoperability when that suits the developer; what the users want is beside the point.'" -- "Three Minutes with Richard Stallman" http://www.pcworld.com/article/id,137098-c,freeware/article.html

So in this model, the Consumers own the Sources (Land, Tools, etc.) needed for the Objectives (Goods and Services) they need.

We will also co-own the ISPs, the cell-phone towers, the farms, the factories, the well, the mines, the refineries...  We pay for it all anyway (and more than costs when we pay profit), so it is easy to see we can afford to be the owners.

When the Users own the Physical Sources and accept the product itself as the return on investment, work is no longer considered a goal in itself, but returns to it's natural position as a hurdle to be minimized.

Crowd-Funding will become Crowd-Owning when groups of consumers buy and *own* the Physical Sources needed to house, bathe, feed, clothe and care for their bodies.


2. Treat some profit as the Consumer's investment so they receive access to the Sources of the Objects they use.

The GNU GPL says any User that receives 'Object Code' must receive access to the Sources.

So when a Consumer receives a Good or Service, they should also receive the Means of Production for that Good or Service.

For example, when someone buys a beer, they need to receive ownership in the *Sources* of that beer, such as a brewery, bottling plant, trucks and so forth.

As we become more and more vertically-integrated, we will own the barley fields, hops fields, equipment to store and propogate yeast, etc.

If the Consumer pays more than cost (in other words, if he pays profit), we can use some of that to grow the size of the production, but crucially, some of that ownership must accrue to the Consumer that received the Object (Good or Service).

Treating profit as an investment from the payer causes the property ownership of the organization to be automatically distributed to those who paid for that growth and need the results.


3. Treat Worker Promises as investment, also giving them property ownership in the Sources of the Goods and Services they need (most importantly when they are not the Sources they operate).

Every Worker is also a Consumer.  We must protect the Worker *as* a Consumer.

Trading work promises before production begins allows us to specialize without passing tokens while also solving the "simultaneous coincidence of wants" problem that faces typical barter.
