Related: CCPP, IOTA, VIPM

A Product Future represents:

0. A Product of some projected quality and quantity at some rate across time.

1. The Property needed for that production held under the terms of the IOTA.

2. The Promises needed for that production committed by qualified workers.

==Features
0. Property is the purpose of investment.
1. Product is property's natural return.
2. Promises are the worker's investment.
3. Profit is the payer's investment.
4. Secession is an inalienable right.

==Examples
1. Product: One dozen grade A, medium chicken eggs every week.
2. Property: Co-ownership in land and tools etc. of a chicken farm and to grow feed.
3. Promises: Contractural agreements from all the people required to run a chicken farm.

==Sharing Property
Products are preallocated when the product users are the property owners.
The co-owners of a cow do not buy milk since they each owns their % already.

==Swapping Promises
We can specialize without passing tokens and without resorting to troubles of traditional barter by trading promises to work *before* production begins.

So Mr. A may commit to work for Ms. B in return for Ms. B committing to work for Mr. A.

But more complex chains can also be arranged such as A works for B and B works for C and C works A, etc.

This insures any product for as much as the property and promises can be secured.



==Product Examples
1 gallon of raw milk per week
1 lb Grade AA raw butter per week
1 Doz Grade A eggs per week
1 oil-change and chassis lube per year.
1 game of bowling per month
10 miles of bus service per day
10 hours of taxi service per day


==Property Examples
Dairy cattle + land, water, feed, machines, buildings, tools needed to host those cattle.
Chickens + land, water, feed, machines, buildings, tools, etc.
Motor oil and grease + land, machines, buildings, tools, etc.
Bowling alley + land, machines, buildings, tools, etc.
Bus + land, machines, buildings, tools, etc.
Taxi + land, machines, buildings, tools, etc.


==Promises Examples
Will milk cows at the X dairy every day until the end of this year.
Will make butter at the X dairy every other day until July 1st 3033.
Will feed chickens and gather eggs at the X chicken farm every day until the end of February.
Will change oil and lube chassis at the X automotive garage every Tuesday and Thursday until December 21 of this year.
Will maintain the X bowling alley every Saturday and Sunday until I get sick of it; will give 1 week notice.
Will drive X bus every Monday and Wednesday from 8am to 2pm for a while...  I will give 2 weeks notice before leaving.
Will drive X taxi from 6pm to 1am every Friday and Saturday until I get bored of it.  I may not warn before quitting.

As a worker, you may choose to sign such contracts for anyone willing to accept your expertise.  These commitments are real investments.

Other investments are commitments of Land or Capital, or whenever you pay Profit within the VIPM.

As an Investor, you recieve full or partial Product Futures as a combination of:

1. Some % of co-ownership in the property for which you need the outputs.  For example, someone who drinks milk would want ownership in cattle while someone who uses honey would want ownership in bees.

2. Commitments from other Workers within the VIPM to supply the labor needed to operate that property on your behalf.  While you are fixing cars or painting buildings, those with which you have Swapped Skills will be milking cows and gathering honey.

This gives us time to solve the "Simultaneous Coincidence of Wants" problem that faces typical barter, and nearly eliminates the need to use money at all, since the goods and services we need are already the property of those who need them.

Co-owners should advertise minimum allowable standards to avoid attracting workers unwilling to meet those constraints.

Each Product Future represents all *potential* production of those Physical assets, and so is much more powerful/valuable than a typical currency.

It might be useful to also issue 'tickets' against future payouts that would more closely resemble typical currency.

Each ticket has a window of validity - where it could not be used before some certain time, nor could it be used after some other certain time.

For example, a group might issue a book of 52 tickets each year for products that are used weekly.

Ideally this will all be electronic and we will simply carry a card or identify ourselves in some other manner to collect the goods and services we already own, and to track that use to disallow cheating.  We must defend ourselves against someone who pays for 1 gallon of milk per week, but then tries to collect more.

Each Product Future should represent the societal need as assessed by Product users according to the full price paid - where paying up to cost indicates worth, and paying any amount over cost as a desire to grow.

Product Futures are issued in response to any investment type, including when users pay profit.

Profit is accepted from users during the sale of surplus and is then offered back to that same user as shares of co-ownership in the growth of that group.

These payers become new investors in the property in exactly the amount they pay above cost.  This distributes control to those willing to pay for that growth as shares of divisible ownership in the property required for production - so Products become Free (as in Freedom) for every user.

The Product Future is bound by the conditions of the IOTA.

A functional VIPM will require a minimum "Horizontal Diversity" to allow us to 'pay' each other without needing to pass tokens.  For example, we buy/build a dentist office and the tools for simple dental procedures.  We must attract or train someone that can operate those tools, and who is willing to commit to do that work for the 'pay' of gaining co-ownership in the property for his housing, food, clothing, transportation, sanitation, etc. combined with commitments of others to operate that property for his benefit in return for his fixing their teeth.  Notice this fully replaces traditional insurance.

We will also want to work toward "Vertical Integration" to move away from the need to gather and spend external tokens. For example, we will buy grains and alfalfa at first to feed our chickens and cattle, but will also grow those plants to avoid the need to buy in the future.  Vertical Integration is a very long-term goal, and we won't co-own mines or factories right away, but will just buy off-the-shelf tools at first, while we are 'booting'.


Part of the initial costs for purchasing the property might be collected from middle-income consumers who are willing to pre-pay for organic goods.

Each person would invest just enough (either Money, Land or Capital) to cover the predicted costs of production for the amount of Product they each intend to use.

Each of these investors would still need to pay their % of the costs as usual, but since they would accept the Product itself as the return for that risk, there would be sale, and so Profit would not exist at all.

Labor will come from skilled artisans initially willing to work in return for food, shelter, basic medical care, etc. with a future payout of real co-ownership in the VIPM.

These workers must receive real co-ownership in the property for which they need the outputs, but until those facilities are functional, will need to be paid more 'directly' by being housed in tents and fed basic rations, etc.


==Rough Business Model
0. Property is the purpose of investment.
This gives the consumers absolute dominion over production and eliminates profit naturally.

1. Product is property's natural return.
This means Consumers will micro-invest by pre-paying for results, become co-owners of that business and receive the Product itself as a side-effect of that ownership.

2. Promises are the worker's investment.
This means workers will become co-owners in the means of production *for which they need the product* and accept product as ROI, as all other owners.  This is probably the most complicated part of the system because it requires we have a "Production Arena" which has a wide enough variety of Means of Production that it can be used to supply a "Basic Outcome" (such as food, shelter, sanitation, health-care, transportation, etc.) to those participants.  This allows us to compensate workers without paying wages in the traditional sense.

3. Profit is the payer's investment.
This means late-coming Consumers will overpay for Product, just as in regular Capitalism, but we will treat some % of that value as though they had made an investment.  This causes all consumers to incrementally become co-owners and therefore stop paying profit as well.

4. Secession is an inalienable right.
This is a (clumsy) attempt to solve the tyranny of the majority problem.


Products are not sold when the users co-own the property, because the product is already in the hands of those who will consume it even before it is produced.

For example, you do not need to buy Apples when you co-own an Apple or orchard because you *already* own your % of that product according to your % of ownership in the physical Sources (trees, land, water-rights, etc.) needed to produce those apples.

There is no need to pay wages when workers commit work before production begins because compensation comes in the form of co-ownership in the property they need combined with promises to work on your behalf from others in the VIPM.

For example, if you promise to pick Apples in return for someone else promising to pick Oranges and someone else promises to fix your teeth, and someone else promises to fix your car, etc., then we can enjoy the full benefits of specialization without the problem of double coincidence of wants caused by trading products late.
