Related: CCPP, IOTA, VIPM

A Product Future represents:
0. A Product of a projected quality and quantity at some rate across time.
1. The Property needed for that production held under the terms of the IOTA.
2. The Promises needed for that production committed by qualified workers.

This insures any Product for as much as the Property and Promises can be secured.

==Examples
0. Product:  One dozen grade A, medium chicken eggs every week.
1. Property: Co-ownership in land and tools etc. of a chicken farm and to grow feed.
2. Promises: Contractural agreements from all the people required to run a chicken farm.

0. Product:  Two rides on the west-side bus between 8am and 8pm every day.
1. Property: Co-ownership in bus and tools etc. to operate and maintain the bus fleet.
2. Promises: Contractural agreements from all the people required to operate and maintain the bus fleet.

==Sharing Property
Goods are preallocated when the Users commit Property toward future production.
For example, owning .13% of an orchard means you automatically own .13% of the fruit.

==Swapping Promises
Services are predictively scheduled when Workers commit Promises toward future production.
For example, picking 1.3 tons more fruit than needed to harvest your % of the orchard means you have done work for those other orchard co-owners.

When used together, these two optimizations allow us to 

We can specialize without passing tokens and without resorting to troubles of traditional barter by trading promises to work *before* production begins.

Mr. A may commit to work for Ms. B in return for Ms. B committing to work for Mr. A.

But more complex chains can also be arranged such as A works for B and B works for C and C works A, etc.

As a worker, you may choose to sign such contracts for anyone willing to accept your expertise.  These commitments are real investments.

Other investments are commitments of Land or Capital, or whenever you pay Profit within the VIPM.

As an Investor, you recieve full or partial Product Futures as a combination of:

1. Some % of co-ownership in the property for which you need the outputs.  For example, someone who drinks milk would want ownership in cattle while someone who uses honey would want ownership in bees.

2. Commitments from other Workers within the VIPM to supply the labor needed to operate that property on your behalf.  While you are fixing cars or painting buildings, those with which you have Swapped Skills will be milking cows and gathering honey.

This gives us time to solve the "Simultaneous Coincidence of Wants" problem that faces typical barter, and nearly eliminates the need to use money at all, since the goods and services we need are already the property of those who need them.

Co-owners should advertise minimum allowable standards to avoid attracting workers unwilling to meet those constraints.

Each Product Future represents all *potential* production of those Physical assets, and so is much more powerful/valuable than a typical currency.

It might be useful to also issue 'tickets' against future payout instances to more closely resemble typical currency.

Each ticket would have a window of validity - where it could only be used after a starting time and before an ending time.

Ideally the Product Futures and tickets will be electronic, but this is not required.

This accounting is important to defend ourselves against someone who might try to take more than they own.

Each Product Future represents the societal need as assessed by Product users according to the full price paid - where paying up to cost indicates worth, and paying any amount over cost indicates a desire to grow.

Product Futures are issued in response to any investment type, including when users pay profit.

Profit is accepted during the sale of surplus and then offered back to that payer as unvested Product Futures.

The payers of profit gain property ownership in exactly the amount they pay above cost.  This distributes control to those willing to pay for that growth so Products become Free (as in Freedom) for every user.


To insure production continues, a Product Future owner must either:
1. Provide all the sources needed to cover the recurring costs of production.
2. Swap their own sources for the sources that production requires.
3. Allow the group to trade a portion of their property for the sources that production requires.
4. Secede from the group to retain their now unproductive property.
