                Patrick T. Anderson -- Senior Software Engineer
                  (801) 815-3819  Patrick.T.Anderson@Gmail.com


General Skills:
  Cross-Platform C/C++ using Visual Studio on Windows and gcc/gdb on Linux.
  Repurpose legacy code through aggressive distillation and modularization.
  Develop techniques and tools for diagnosing, troubleshooting and debugging.


Work History:
  Oct/13-Present: Economic Systems Engineering - Cross Crowd Predictive Production
    CrossCrowdPredictiveProduction.github.io

  Oct/11-Oct/13: File System Development at StorageCraft - Draper, UT
    Develop caching vhd and vhdx plugins for imaging suite.
    Integrate VMware VDDK libraries for vmdk and ESXi targets.
    Debug and extend in-house cross-platform library.


  Oct/08-Oct/11: Configuration Management at StorageCraft - Draper, UT
    Automate build system to compile, sign, package, verify and report.
    Develop installer framework to overcome traditional installer limitations.
    Make installers using InstallShield, WiX, NSIS.  Build WinPE images.


  Aug/05-Oct/08: Independent Contractor - American Fork, UT
    Design EcoComics ecology simulation to compare economic model efficiency.
    Develop plain-text Wiki with autolink and WYSIWYG "pass through" markup.
    Design JIT package manager to download, install and execute advertised features.
    Write the Intra-Owner Trade Agreement (IOTA) as the basis of a new currency.
    Begin basic Linux application development.


  Aug/00-Aug/05: Altiris - Lindon, UT
    Write thin C++ library to simplify Win32 development and automate resource management.
    Design "pass through" interfaces to increase performance and decrease maintenance.
    Prefer zero-copy data transfer for speed and safety across object and thread contexts.
    Extend, debug and repair Windows device drivers used to read/write HP hardware settings.
    Write W32 Service to remotely control and report computer settings.
    Write simple HTTP and IMAP clients to send commands, and parse results.
    Write self-extracting installer conforming to "Add/Remove Programs" guidelines.
    Write dynamic virtual file system for incremental backup to removable media.


  Aug/99-Aug/00: NovaRad - Orem, UT
    Integrate DICOM transport and JPEG2k compression into medical imaging client.
    Design predictive caching SCSI robotic tape archiver.


  Jul/97-Aug/99: NetSchools - Provo, UT
    Develop UDP/IP packet generator and simple sniffer for IR network.
    Develop Win9x network logon provider using SSPI and Blowfish encryption.
    Help develop write protection for Win9x file system and Registry.
    Maintain and extend Win9x compressing RAM paging driver and keyboard filter VxD.


  Jun/96-Jun/97: BioVision Motion Capture - Orem, UT
    Develop Flex/Bison regexps, BNFs and glue code to import motion capture data.
    Develop other tools to simplify and automate motion data transforms.
    Use matrix mathematics and spline approximations to smooth sparse data.


  Feb/96-Jul/96: IBM Eduquest - Provo, UT
    Track and fix application bugs in educational software.
    Help write Win9x printer driver to translate between Postscript, PCL, PDDP.


  Jan/95-Dec/98: Brigham Young University - Provo, UT
    Independent C/C++ tutor.
    Teacher's Aid for "Discrete Structures and Combinatorial Mathematics" I and II.


Education:
  Brigham Young University - Provo, UT
    B.S. in Computer Science, 1998.
