Related: CCPP, IOTA, Product Future

A Vertically Integrated Permaculture Mosaic (VIPM) is ecologically and economically closed-loop development platform used to continuously reproduce our biological needs.

This is a cohesive framework of land, organisms and tools bound by the constraints of the IOTA.


 and all other Property required for the organic resilience of any group of humans.

The minimum size and complexity is based on the projected minimum outputs needed to meet the standard-of-living each participant desires.


==Outline
* Potential users pre-pay to purchase land, water-rights,
  tools, plants, animals, etc. required to create basic
  goods and services that most everyone needs such as
  food, shelter, cloth, soap, medicine, sanitation,
  basic health care including dentistry, optometry, etc.

* If a payer has skills needed by others within the VIPM,
  they can contract to work in exchange for Product Futures.

* After some amount of time, or after some series of events
  the Product Futures should vest more fully to the payer to
  allow for selling and/or renting of that Property or the
  Products of that Property.

* Initial stages of development might have some workers living
  in tents of mobile homes and eating food bought in bulk and
  prepared on-site in a cafeteria setting.

* Later, after the agriculture is installed and producing, the
  system will become "self hosted", being able to support all
  basic needs without external inputs.

* Soon afterward the system will be producing surplus that can
  be sold to outsiders to collect Profit.

* If Venture Capitalists helped fund the operation, part of the
  Profit will be used as their ROI.

* We may want to distribute part of the Profit to the Workers,
  since that is a popular thing to do.

* We may we to distribute part of the Profit to random charities,
  since that is a popular thing to do.

* But we MUST handle some non-zero % of the Profits as though
  that overpayment were an investment from the payer.

* We should charge Profit during those sales, since if we don't
  collect the Profit, a middle-man will buy all that we offer
  at Cost, and then resell it for a Profit anyway.

* So we will charge Profit against the Payer, but we will also
  treat (at least part of) that magic value as Payer Investment.

* This causes these late-coming users to slowly gain ownership
  and therefore to eventually stop buying that product too.

* Similar to how the GNU GPL enforces Copyleft through Copyright,
  we propose to create a PropertyLeft document enforced through
  Property Rights used to apply this requirement to the Aggregate.

* This social contract can be applied by co-owners of any
  material assets to insure freedom for all users.

* Notice this is also a literal form of Insurance.

* These users must cover all the real cost of production
  just as any owners do, but they do not buy the product
  since they own it already - and they don't sell the
  product because they need to use it directly.

* The product is not traded unless there is surplus, and
  in that case the payer must cover all the Costs of that
  production so the Property owner can be compensated for
  paying when they didn't need to.

* The Payer will usually also pay Profit, according to how
  much the "market will bear".  Some % of that overpayment
  must be treated as an investment from that payer so the
  growth of the Aggregate is incrementally autodistributed
  to all those willing to pay for that growth.

* At some point, and under certain constraints, and mostly
  to resolve disputes, subgroups must finally be allowed to
  fork from the rest while retaining Property ownership.


....


    Incorporating for Product - Investing for Goods

Let's make new corporations owned by the Users of those Products.

We will organize groups to co-buy the Property needed for Production.

We will help workers contract (Promise or bond) to work in the future in exchange for food and shelter now.

Owners as consumers receive the product itself as a natural return for those investments.  Each co-owner of the productive assets is co-owner of the product in that same amount.  If you own 15% of a milk-cow, then you own 15% of the milk (assuming you 'paid' your portion of the costs).  This can be true even if you co-own just a tiny % of a large dairy with many other Consumers.

That leaves Profit to be treated as Payer Investment in more Property - to become the real Property of that Consumer - causing him to incrementally gain the ownership in Property that will allow him to finally stop buying that Product late, but instead pay the Costs early and then own the Product as a side-effect of his Property ownership.

We will build new corporations that outperform the Capitalists when we finally recognize Price above Cost as a measure of the Consumer's lack of Ownership - and so must be treated as though that payer had just invested in more Property needed to grow the collective.

This auto-distributes ownership as the organization grows to those willing to pay (whether in Capital or in Work) for that growth.

These for-product corporations will treat Profit as a misallocation of Property and 'govern' that steam by reflecting it back to the Payer as his new (probably not yet vested) co-ownership in that growth.



==Commentary
Capitalism has achieved much for humanity, but as any business scales in size it becomes clear the goals of that body conflicts with the goals of those it claims to serve.

As society becomes more aware of these troubles, corporations try to hide their goal of Profit because we understand Scarcity keeps Price above cost, and therefore striving to perpetuate Profit is the very basis of the conflict between Production and Consumption.

It may seem there could be no solution since those who traditionally Fund production demand Profit as a Return for the Risk they take.  They are operating under the paradigm of "Exchange Value" which requires some amount of scarcity to keep Price above Cost.



Let's re-examine our assumptions about who should Fund and therefore Own the Means of Production.

Let's look at the most trivial case of a single person owning a fruit tree for his own benefit.

He must pay all the Costs of ownership, including Wages if he does not do the work himself.

But he cannot pay *more* than Cost, for who would he pay it to?

Profit is defined as Price above Cost but if he does not sell the product, Profit is undefined.

This is all very obvious and might seem unimportant, but let's push the idea a bit further and see what happens:

Imagine now, instead of a single Funder-Owner-User, we have thousands of such investors pooling Funds toward an orchard.

By attracting potential Users to pre-pay for the goods they predict they will need, we can use those Funds to buy the means necessary for that production.

The Users and Owners will then be the very same set.  The product will not be sold because the ROI for the Risk is Product itself which they attain at Cost.

This solves the 'static' case where the number of Users matches exactly the output of that production.

But many of these consuming investors will want to over-own by some percentage to guarantee they have enough product at the round of each production.

We must do something with that surplus or it will rot.

We can sell those products for Price above Cost - as much as the market will bear - but to keep the organization owned by the Users of those products, we must treat the payment of Profit as an investment from the User who paid it so they also gain ownership in the Property needed for production.



==Another Explanation
In the attached picture "Capitalism.png" we see investors in the upper-left corner funding production and receiving Title in that Property.

All Costs, including Worker wages, are initially paid from that pool of funding.

The Consumer (in blue) begins to paying for those Costs in his (late) quest to buy Objects.

Over time, if the business is successful, the investors receive all they had initially put forward and then begin receiving the special value called Profit.

The Consumer never gains any Property ownership under this arrangement.

...

In the attached picture "Patched-Capitalism.png" we see again see investors in the upper-left corner funding production and receiving Title in that Property, but this time the investors are *also* Consumers of the future product.  They are taking risk for the purpose of receiving at-cost Product under their full control.

After each round of Production, the Objects are not sold (except in cases of surplus), because they are already the Property of those who will consume them.

The heavy line indicates there is no transfer of ownership, but shows the funders are already the owners without any need to purchase since they paid all the Costs of production and are the owners as a side-effect of their Property ownership.

The bottom of the picture shows a Consumer with insufficient ownership buying Objects late and probably paying Price above Cost.

But in this case, that overpayment is treated as an investment from the Consumer who paid it - causing him to unwittingly Fund the purchase and care of even *more* Property that will eventually begin producing and therefore provide him with that which he needs.

This allows the organization to grow and yet remain distributed as all new ownership is 'reflected' back to those willing to pay for that growth.


==Again
Seeking At Cost Goods and Services finally under 'our' full control:
.) Avoid paying Economic Rent when you have sufficient Property ownership.

.) Avoid paying Profit for Consumable Goods when you have sufficient Property ownership needed to Produce those Goods.

.) Avoid paying Interest on Money when you Issue instead of Borrow.

.) Avoid paying Wages when you do the Work yourself.
(*) This only occurs during perfect 'sufficiency'.  Any Scheduling conflict might trigger an auction, and then bidding will drive Price Above Cost.

Most countries, such as the United States, only tax imputed income in certain situations, such as the calculation of domestic partner employee benefits.  It is sometimes difficult to measure, and there can be political consequences to doing so.  From the perspective of taxpayers, this creates a tax benefit in favor of owning over renting, and in favor of self-service over hiring.  From the perspective of the economy, this distorts economic activity away from activities that are associated with the division of labor. - http://Wikipedia.org/wiki/Imputed_income

NOTES* when Developers are supported through the Basic Outcome provided they will have time to apply Skill as Play so our Costs will fall even further.


==Mantra for a GNU Economy

If Consumers were investors, and their return was the product, we could get what we need without buying or selling, and would trade only Promises.

But for those not yet part of such a scheme, profit charged against those late consumers would be treated as an investment from that payer.

This eliminates part of the need for money, since the (co-)owner of an Avocado tree does not buy Avocados, but owns them already as a side-effect of owning the Property required for that production.


==Imputed Production
Imagine a crowd-funded corporation where the only shareholders were the very consumers of that product.

Their ROI for taking risk would be to avoid paying profit - since the owner of an Apple tree does not *buy* the Apples from himself, but owns those Objectives already, as a side-effect of his Property ownership.

There would no longer be "Vendor/Customer" relations to worry about since the Vendor and Customer would be one and the same!

The product would not be sold back to each investor-consumer-owner, but it is already their Property according to the amount they invested - whether they invested with money or with labor.

The owner of a milk cow does not buy the milk from himself, but owns it already as a result of his owning the cow.

A cooperative SELLS the product back to the consumer-owners - thereby collecting !profit! and coming under the scrutiny of government restrictions (for example it is illegal to sell raw milk in some part of the US).

In cases where an agent has invested more than he can use directly, he can sell that product to agents who do not yet have sufficient ownership, but under the strict condition (enforced by a Terms of Operation over that organization) that any profit collected during that sale be treated as an investment from that payer - so the organization can grow in size while avoiding the troubles of centralization and overaccumulation that plague nearly every other endeavor that even begins to succeed.

There is no reason to worry about the workers - for that is who I am protecting, but am protecting their ability to consume instead of trying to prop-up wages and avoid automation.

Wishing the machines would just stop (as John Henry) will become less and less of an option as the robots are coming to take the work away - and we can be *happy* about that if we are working on the right side of the equation!

Furthermore, even without robots, wages and profit will approach zero as the Means of Production become cheaper, since there will be no way to stop willing workers from accessing those tools and thereby providing the solutions consumers seek.

Workers can invest more than they are able to consume, but it won't do them any good when the consumers already have sufficient ownership needed to protect themselves from workers who try to stop other peers from doing that work by blocking access to Property needed for Production.

Workers cannot protect wages through ownership if other consumers already have sufficient ownership because propping wages requires the worker be able to STOP other potential workers from accessing the Property, and why would a group stop a peer from bidding to do a job especially since in some cases they might even do that work for free (gratis) because they see it as play.

Workers who invest and co-own more of the Apple orchard than they are able to consume will not be able to prop-up wages because the other co-owners will always have the option to do the work for themselves or to hire the lowest bidder.

When the consumers around those workers have sufficient ownership, they will not be buying the product from anyone, but will own it already as a side-effect of their owning the Property needed for that production.

You may be tempted to dismiss this as simply a Consumer Cooperative, but this is absolutely NOT a Consumer Cooperative.

1,) Consumer Cooperatives *sell* the product back to the co-owners and collect a profit during that transaction that a committee then doles out in a Tyranny of the Majority fashion.

1a.) Imputed Production only sells product to non-owners, and only when there is surplus, and treats that profit as an investment from that payer - causing ownership and control to be automatically distributed at the point of sale back to the actor who was willing to pay for it. This system minimizes and nearly eliminates the trading of goods since the Property owner of does not buy the Objective, but owns it already as a result of his Property ownership.  The trading of goods will tend toward zero but does not reach stasis because of newcomers into the system (even just babies being born), and because people's interests change across time.

2.) Consumer Cooperatives are "Democratically Controlled" with one-member/one-vote.

2a.) Imputed Production is far more autarchic- where any member can 'fork' his portion of the Property and secede from the union or sell those shares if a split is attempted that is finer than reasonable divisibility (you can't both feed a single milk-cow grain and NOT feed that cow grain, but can divide a herd).

2b.) Each member has exactly as much vote power as he has ownership. If you own 11% of a roto-tiller and your neighbor owns 22%, then you have only half as much vote power in decisions such as "how often should we change the oil".

3.) Every Consumer Cooperative I know of is only concerned with buying products that were made by Capitalists.

3a.) Imputed Production is primarily about ownership and control of the entire tree of production - recursively, and works toward a Vertically Integrated Commons where we, the people, own the farms and factories and land and water rights and all the other Property and supporting Property required to reproduce those things.

We don't need to transform politicians, and do not have enough money to buy such changes anyway.

All we need to do is start businesses that are funded and owned by Consumers and that treat Profit as payer investment.

Customers *already* pay all the Costs of production. We, the consumers, foot the entire bill. And we *also* pay Profit because we choose to pay late.

But if we could organize to pay early - to collectively purchase the Property needed to produce the products we need - then, we would still need to pay all costs.

But since we would own the objective as a side-effect of our Property ownership, we would not be 'buying' from ourselves, and so COULD NOT pay Profit, for that final transaction would not even occur!

Profit is UNDEFINED when the Customers are the Owners of the Means of Production.

And instead of taking a stance through Property ownership, we beg and plead with the current owners to "please do the right thing" - even though the current owners have NO POSSIBLE CHANCE of "doing the right thing" for they owe investors who expect Price be kept above Cost.

And Price can only be kept above Cost during Scarcity.

So we see the drive for Scarcity is caused by choosing investors who expect Profit as a return.

The drive for Scarcity can be eliminated by choosing investors who expect Product as a return.

But only Customers can use Product as a return.

So the answer is to attract Customers to pre-pay for Product - while using those pre-payments as actual investments which are then Property co-owned by those Customers who benefit from the use-value of that production, and never need strive for Scarcity, for the product will usually never be sold.

In the case where a Customer-Owner has too much product: the solution is to sell that product to non-owners, and even to charge Price above Cost (Profit) against those late comers *BUT* - here is the trick - the Profit received must be treated as though that Customer had just made an investment toward even more productive Property.

Treating Profit as that payer's investment will allow the collective to include others while simultaneously avoiding the typical problems of overaccumulation and excessive concentration of control that cause even the most well-intentioned organizations to finally fail to meet the needs of those they were initially formed to serve (the customers of course!).

This is somewhat like a "short circuit" across the typical market.

Where the consumers do not buy the finished goods, but own them already - even before they are completed - as a side-effect of their Property ownership.

If you own an Apple tree, you do not *buy* the apples from yourself.

If you and your neighbor co-own an Apple, you need not *buy* the apples from your collective 'self'.

If you 999 other people co-own an Apple orchard, you need not *buy* the apples from your collective 'self'.

This has other benefits such as:

1.) Since the product is not sold, there is no chance for the government to collect sales tax.

2.) Since the product is not sold, there is no chance for the government to disallow that production (buying raw milk is illegal in many parts of the US).



==Another Outline
Attract middle-income Consumers to pre-pay for organic products and earth-friendly services.
Hybrid Option: Attract traditional Venture Capitalists, and pay them a % of profit gathered during growth.
Hybrid Option: Attract corporations like Pepsi, Nike, etc. who fund projects for Public Relations purposes.

Use part of the funds to buy cheap agricultural land without mortgage.
Use part of the funds to buy tools, plants, animals, water rights.
Use part of the funds to buy 'startup' needs of workers such as tents, bulk food, used clothing, first-aid materials, etc.

Attract Workers to build and operate the infrastructure by providing a "Basic Outcome" that covers all of: housing, all utilities (electricity, gas, sewer, recycling), transportation, and even food, water, medicine, clothing, comprehensive health care, child-care, education, - eventually all the things the corporations and governments currently control instead of smaller groups.

Occupy that land with tents to begin planting and building.
Will want to qualify as non-profit to avoid Property taxes.

Each Investor (whether committing money or work) becomes a co-owner of some Property within the VIPM.

* Each worker receives the 'level' of Basic Outcome according to the quantity and quality of work they commit to achieve in the future.

* Others commit their future labor in return for accepting your commitments.

* If you want the studio apartment, a 5 minute shower, and very simple meals, you will not need to commit very much of your future labor.

* If you want a 5-bedroom house want to shares in the clubhouse and more difficult meals, you will need to commit more of your future labor in order to compensate others for the extra work and land and tools

We do not pay wages, but that is ok since the worker does not need to buy most of the goods and services he needs.

We do not sell the Products (except Surplus) because all of that output is in the correct hands even before it is produced.


==Overview
Investors become co-Owners in the VIPM according to the value they commit as measured by the others in that subgroup.

The Consumers do not buy the Products from the VIPM, but instead they come by to claim what is already theirs.

For example, if you like milk and honey, then you will need co-Ownership in cattle and bees and all their inputs, (land, shelter, food, medicine), and the things needed to create those things (plants, animals, tools), recursively through the entire tree of production.


==Timeline
The vision of future product is proposed.
We must estimate the scale and level of vertical integration needed for that, balancing more immediate needs with longer term goals.
Then we write a 'recipe' for that production which includes
 A list of Property needed
 A list of Promises needed
We issue Product Futures against those Property and Promises.
We sell the Product Futures to purchase the Property.
Some will pay with commitments of Property, usually by commitments plain-old-money.
Some will pay with commitments of Promises by committing to work in the future.
Once we have all the needed Property and Promises, we can begin production.
After the first round of production, Products are distributed to each investor based on their % of ownership.
Owners with surplus Product have the option to sell to non-owners to cover the costs of that production.
Profit will be collected from the non-owners (as much as the market will bear), and is treated as they payer's investment toward more Property.


When workers commit Promises, they receive ownership in the Property of that which they needs the Products, not necessarily in that which they know how to operate or maintain.

So, if you want "Dental Assurance", you need co-ownership in the land and capital needed to perform dentistry, and then you 'hire' any Dentist to fix your teeth by cross-committing Promises to work on behalf of that dentist in return for his Promise to fix your teeth when needed.


==Startup
The initial boot-up phase of the operation will have construction workers living in tents and eating cafeteria-style meals some of them prepare from bulk-bought food as they build their own housing and get the agriculture running.

Productive landscaping (permascaping) will eventually provide all of the nutrition and medical needs of the co-owners, but there is a "lead time" for all production, and for some plants and animals, it could be years before the Products are available.  This means some of the Consumer pre-payments must be used to purchase bulk food to feed the Workers until the VIPM is ecologically closed-loop.


==Notes
Articles of Organization/Incorporation

Mission Statement or Statement of Purpose
 Foster the mutually-assured production of food, housing, sanitation, transport, child-care and education, health-care.

Project Charter, Terms of Reference
 Vision, Scope, Goal
  Hotel, Restaurant

Investment forms:

Committing Property relinquishes some % to others in the group.

Examples include land, water-rights, tools, buildings, plants, animals, etc.

1.) Product is Investor's Return: This is an Investment strategy that uses Product as the ROI, and so requires the Investors be the Users themselves.

2.) Profit is Payer Investment: This is a Revenue-Sharing strategy that Invests some % of Profit for the User who paid it.

3.) Investments are Commitments of Property or Promises: This is a way to gather the Land and Capital needed (those committing Property would relinquish ownership to others in a group targeting some specific Product) and also to insure the diverse work needed would be accomplished without need to fight the "simultaneous coincidence of wants" trouble with typical 'late' barter.

Promising to work *before* production begins allows us to trade Labor between ourselves and never need to trade oranges with apples, since the co-owners of the Property own their % of the Product *already*, even before they are produced.  This is "Predictive Barter" - where we Property and Promises are preallocated to those who need the Products.



A functional VIPM will require a minimum "Horizontal Diversity" to allow us to 'pay' each other without needing to pass tokens.  For example, we buy/build a dentist office and the tools for simple dental procedures.  We must attract or train someone that can operate those tools, and who is willing to commit to do that work for the 'pay' of gaining co-ownership in the property for his housing, food, clothing, transportation, sanitation, etc. combined with commitments of others to operate that property for his benefit in return for his fixing their teeth.  Notice this fully replaces traditional insurance.

We will also want to work toward "Vertical Integration" to move away from the need to gather and spend external tokens. For example, we will buy grains and alfalfa at first to feed our chickens and cattle, but will also grow those plants to avoid the need to buy in the future.  Vertical Integration is a very long-term goal, and we won't co-own mines or factories right away, but will just buy off-the-shelf tools at first, while we are 'booting'.


Part of the initial costs for purchasing the property might be collected from middle-income consumers who are willing to pre-pay for organic goods.

Each person would invest just enough (either Money, Land or Capital) to cover the predicted costs of production for the amount of Product they each intend to use.

Each of these investors would still need to pay their % of the costs as usual, but since they would accept the Product itself as the return for that risk, there would be sale, and so Profit would not exist at all.

Labor will come from skilled artisans initially willing to work in return for food, shelter, basic medical care, etc. with a future payout of real co-ownership in the VIPM.

These workers must receive real co-ownership in the property for which they need the outputs, but until those facilities are functional, will need to be paid more 'directly' by being housed in tents and fed basic rations, etc.


==Rough Business Model
0. Property is the purpose of investment.
This gives the consumers absolute dominion over production and eliminates profit naturally.

1. Product is property's natural return.
This means Consumers will micro-invest by pre-paying for results, become co-owners of that business and receive the Product itself as a side-effect of that ownership.

2. Promises are the worker's investment.
This means workers will become co-owners in the means of production *for which they need the product* and accept product as ROI, as all other owners.  This is probably the most complicated part of the system because it requires we have a "Production Arena" which has a wide enough variety of Means of Production that it can be used to supply a "Basic Outcome" (such as food, shelter, sanitation, health-care, transportation, etc.) to those participants.  This allows us to compensate workers without paying wages in the traditional sense.

3. Profit is the payer's investment.
This means late-coming Consumers will overpay for Product, just as in regular Capitalism, but we will treat some % of that value as though they had made an investment.  This causes all consumers to incrementally become co-owners and therefore stop paying profit as well.

4. Secession is an inalienable right.
This is a (clumsy) attempt to solve the tyranny of the majority problem.


Products are not sold when the users co-own the property, because the product is already in the hands of those who will consume it even before it is produced.

For example, you do not need to buy Apples when you co-own an Apple or orchard because you *already* own your % of that product according to your % of ownership in the physical Sources (trees, land, water-rights, etc.) needed to produce those apples.

There is no need to pay wages when workers commit work before production begins because compensation comes in the form of co-ownership in the property they need combined with promises to work on your behalf from others in the VIPM.

For example, if you promise to pick Apples in return for someone else promising to pick Oranges and someone else promises to fix your teeth, and someone else promises to fix your car, etc., then we can enjoy the full benefits of specialization without the problem of double coincidence of wants caused by trading products late.
